There is also one public hearing scheduled. It's a development proposal at 325 Binney Street -- that's the old Metropolitan Pipe site, which is the subject of a zoning
We're also going to have a Design Update on a project that the Planning Board saw earlier at 55 Wheeler Street. That's heading towards a building permit phase, and
with. The little trapezoid is an easement for the Regent Street property, where they have some rights to park on
So there's a 20-foot opening, and it juts out from the opposite side of Creighton Street, and in our previous proposal we were imagining we were just going to be keeping
proposal we were imagining we were just going to be keeping the non-curb sidewalk that ran along Creighton Street. We're now proposing a curb -- a true curb that
We're now proposing a curb -- a true curb that runs all along the side of Creighton Street and turns that corner, so that there's now going to be a curb on both
space on the opposite side of the street and potentially for some parking in front of the Creighton Street side, our side, 56 side.
between the two, and then another for Unit 2 off of Creighton Street. And then Unit 3 has a little outdoor space that's
So this is our scheme. So the top elevation is the Creighton Street. You know, we're trying to pick up on the rhythm of the bays.
idea is to keep even the brick veneer that's there now on the Creighton Street and the track side and clad it with a metal cladding, possibly insulated metal cladding -- rigid
your name and address. Creighton Street. JUDY HIKES: Hi, I am Judy Hikes. I live at 52-54
Can you say your name, please? TOM DALY: Tom Daly, 52-54 Creighton Street. JEFF ROBERTS: Could you spell your last name?
FROYLAN HERNANDEZ: Thank you. My name is Froylan Hernandez-Ruiz, and I live in 61 Creighton Street. JEFF ROBERTS: Yeah. We can hear you, so you can
questions. One is that in the drafts from this amendment, I saw that there is no clear pedestrian access from Creighton Street through Brighton Regent Street.
saw that there is no clear pedestrian access from Creighton Street through Brighton Regent Street. I'm looking at the memo from the CDD January 7.
The second comment is a suggestion to consider to continue the three-line pattern that is already in Regent Street over the current road right-of-way. Because
unmuted now. MICHAEL BRANDON: Thank you, Jeff. It's Michael Brandon, 27 Seven Pines Avenue. I'm a clerk for the North
MICHAEL BRANDON: Thank you, Jeff. It's Michael Brandon, 27 Seven Pines Avenue. I'm a clerk for the North Cambridge Stabilization Committee.
Brandon, 27 Seven Pines Avenue. I'm a clerk for the North Cambridge Stabilization Committee. And we were a little surprised to see this back
parking, location. The sidewalk -- installing curbing on Creighton Street, which has been a question all along, and we tried to raise that at the City Council when they had the
our thought with this issue was that we're -- we've always been maintaining the idea that along this side of Creighton Street, we would allow access through the site to what might
access point from what we're imagining is along this Creighton Street sidewalk to what may be any kind of future path along the MBTA lines.
path along the MBTA lines. The connection from our site over to Regent Street we're imagining is never going to be blocked off. Currently
But there's no intention to block off any access from Creighton Street over to Regent Street. That's always been something that we've talked about at every one of our
up a few questions, and I have some thoughts. One of his points was to reduce the height of the fence on Creighton Street somewhat.
