Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Mayor Siddiqui, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Nolan, Councillor Sobrinho- Wheeler (O-6) from 9/14/2020 Street, Raymond Street and Richdale Ave.
Wheeler (O-6) from 9/14/2020 Street, Raymond Street and Richdale Ave. Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor Simmons (O-11)
woodwork. • Roadway reconstruction on Rogers and Bent Street and a new intersection design at Rogers and Third Streets that is intended to help draw the public from Toomey Park and
• Roadway reconstruction on Rogers and Bent Street and a new intersection design at Rogers and Third Streets that is intended to help draw the public from Toomey Park and the intersection to the Foundry Building. The roadway and landscaping is presently
Dear Director Barr, I submitted a Public Records Request for any City's own, independent, pre-COVID19 traffic study for the Mass Ave and Walden Street (St) intersection. Public Records Access Officer Seah Levy sent me the CC HRE commissioned Vanasse & Associates' Parking and Traffic Assessment - Proposed Residential
Records Access Officer Seah Levy sent me the CC HRE commissioned Vanasse & Associates' Parking and Traffic Assessment - Proposed Residential Development 2072 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts memo stating that "was the only responsive record we have, there is no study by the City." I find it hard to believe the City had never conducted a traffic study at this very busy intersection.
projects under the current, lighter traffic and parking conditions, we will have nightmarish problems when "normal" conditions return. Your response “as a residential project with limited parking that is located within a five minute walk of the Porter Square MBTA Station, I wouldn’t expect this proposed development to have a significant impact on traffic volumes." This ignores many key factors.
dangerous intersection and that the building is designed with safety of the residents, bicyclists, commuters and neighbors. And please take the golden opportunity of 78 Porter Road being currently undergoing renovation and empty to conduct a comprehensive, around the clock parking study during different days of the week for Porter Road/Regent St loop. Then repeat the study once the renovation is completed and the building is fully occupied to measure the true impact of 100%
of 78 Porter Road being currently undergoing renovation and empty to conduct a comprehensive, around the clock parking study during different days of the week for Porter Road/Regent St loop. Then repeat the study once the renovation is completed and the building is fully occupied to measure the true impact of 100% affordable housing with no parking spaces. Matter of fact, this would establish a parking requirement baseline for any large new development near public transit.
On Wed, Oct 28, 2020 at 5:21 PM Barr, Joseph <jbarr@cambridgema.gov> wrote: I’m not aware of any counts specifically at the Walden Street/Massachusetts Avenue intersection, but any existing traffic counts would be available through the City’s open data portal: https://www.cambridgema.gov/departments/opendata. In terms of suggesting a methodology for extrapolating current volumes to
have the authority to compel the developer to prepare one. However, as a residential project with limited parking that is located within a five minute walk of the Porter Square MBTA Station, I wouldn’t expect this proposed development to have a significant impact on traffic volumes. Respectfully yours,
talked to, that because of the location of the project, a full Transportation Impact Study (TIS), certified by the City, is required. The TIS should include assessment of the current road configuration (westbound Walden Street being one lane all the way past Sherman Street and eastbound Walden Street in front of the property being 2 turning lanes). Parking is also a very complicated situation due to
should include assessment of the current road configuration (westbound Walden Street being one lane all the way past Sherman Street and eastbound Walden Street in front of the property being 2 turning lanes). Parking is also a very complicated situation due to competition with retail customers looking for parking spaces. Of course, after 8 PM all the meter parking spaces will free up but that
I would like to thank Mr. Korb for the independent parking and traffic assessment conducted by Vanasse & Associates (V&A) for the proposed 2072 Mass Ave (2072) 100% affordable housing project (AH project) at the southwest corner of Mass Ave and Walden street (intersection). This is an impressive, well conducted study that was made public in perfect timing to my request for a comprehensive parking study around 78 Porter Road Apartments (appended
(2072) 100% affordable housing project (AH project) at the southwest corner of Mass Ave and Walden street (intersection). This is an impressive, well conducted study that was made public in perfect timing to my request for a comprehensive parking study around 78 Porter Road Apartments (appended below), also an AH project.
means but offering my comments as a retired system engineer and a long-time resident of North Cambridge. The most glaring flaw is that the effects of COVID-19 on parking and traffic were not factored in. I live on Norris Street and the normal, pre-COVID-19, morning rush hour traffic heading into Porter Square and beyond regularly backed up to Norris Street making it very difficult to exit the street to get onto Mass
The most glaring flaw is that the effects of COVID-19 on parking and traffic were not factored in. I live on Norris Street and the normal, pre-COVID-19, morning rush hour traffic heading into Porter Square and beyond regularly backed up to Norris Street making it very difficult to exit the street to get onto Mass Ave in either direction. The reverse was true in the evening on the northbound side heading towards Alewife Brook Parkway compounded by two traffic lights
morning rush hour traffic heading into Porter Square and beyond regularly backed up to Norris Street making it very difficult to exit the street to get onto Mass Ave in either direction. The reverse was true in the evening on the northbound side heading towards Alewife Brook Parkway compounded by two traffic lights separated only by a block at Cameron Ave and Cedar Street intersections. And there were hardly any parking spaces available on Norris Street after 6 PM.
Ave in either direction. The reverse was true in the evening on the northbound side heading towards Alewife Brook Parkway compounded by two traffic lights separated only by a block at Cameron Ave and Cedar Street intersections. And there were hardly any parking spaces available on Norris Street after 6 PM. But since COVID-19 shut-down began, there have been plenty of parking spaces available and I hardly have to wait to make the turn onto Mass Ave, just
The traffic study didn’t go far enough in only considering the estimated trip generated by the project. The study should have considered the road configuration at that intersection and the impact of the project on the traffic flow. Walden Street at the intersection is a 3-lane road; one westbound lane and two eastbound lanes with one for right turn only and the other left turn only. The solid lane marking separating the turning lanes starts well west of the property; and the two
turn arrows start just about even with the curb cut into the current Darul Kabab. It is not hard to imagine the gridlock a delivery truck would cause when it attempts to turn into the property after turning into Walden Street during the rush hour from Mass Ave. It will immediately get stuck trying to cut across two lanes of eastbound traffic waiting to turn left or right onto Mass Ave.
The study should also have counted the current traffic volume at the intersection and counted the number and duration of cars waiting to make turns either onto Mass Ave from Walden Street or vice versa during the peak commuting hours. This could have been done easily by using strategically placed traffic counters. These counts should then have been extrapolated into normal, pre-COVID estimates to be used in assessing the impact of the new vehicle traffic.
Furthermore, the study should have addressed the issue of bicycle traffic and pedestrian foot traffic at this very busy intersection for people trying to get to Porter Square T station or to their destinations. Finally, the study should have assessed the social issue I mentioned above. When we return to “normal” after COVID-19, I envision a vibrant neighborhood with area restaurants and other businesses running at full capacity creating a heavy congestion at this
I beg you to consider my noted flaws and shortcomings of the parking and traffic assessment for the proposed 2072 AH project and address them in the parking study around Porter Road/ /Regent Street loop I have requested. Going one step further, I beg you to update the parking and traffic assessment guidelines for future developments to include but not limited to:
These arguments have also been used for large development projects in requesting special permits to waive the parking requirements. It came to my attention that 78 Porter Road, which to my best knowledge is a 100% affordable development, is currently undergoing renovation and is empty. I am writing to urge you to conduct a comprehensive, around the clock parking study during different days of a week for Porter Road/Regent Street
It came to my attention that 78 Porter Road, which to my best knowledge is a 100% affordable development, is currently undergoing renovation and is empty. I am writing to urge you to conduct a comprehensive, around the clock parking study during different days of a week for Porter Road/Regent Street loop while 78 Porter Road is empty and repeat the study once the renovation is completed and the building is fully occupied to measure the true impact of
empty. I am writing to urge you to conduct a comprehensive, around the clock parking study during different days of a week for Porter Road/Regent Street loop while 78 Porter Road is empty and repeat the study once the renovation is completed and the building is fully occupied to measure the true impact of public transit. Opportunities like this will be very hard to come by and I beg the City and Capstone/Hope to take advantage to prove that indeed one parking
affordable housing (AH) project (Development) which is too dense in that neighborhood occupying the entire lot at a busy intersection of Mass Ave and Walden Street (intersection) with no setbacks or ground As much as I appreciate the need for AH in Cambridge, there are already (or soon to be) four 100% AH
As much as I appreciate the need for AH in Cambridge, there are already (or soon to be) four 100% AH projects within a half mile of Porter Square on or near Mass Ave (analysis attached) with 133 units with average floor area ratio (FAR) of 2.1.
pdf copy of my communications with the City officials including Director Barr (with recent photos of traffic backed up on Walden Street) on this issue as well as a plea to conduct a thorough parking study at 78 Porter Road which is undergoing renovation to study the parking impact of AH in a residential neighborhood.
Using every available square foot of the lot with no ground level greenspace for this Development is a far cry from their more reasonable Frost Terrace and is out of character of the surrounding residential area. CC HRE did a beautiful job of restoring the houses that were
story building facing Mass Ave although I must complement the developer for reducing the height to 6 stories facing the Walden neighborhood. Children coming home from school to Frost Terrace would feel a lot more like coming to their own houses than to this high-rise tower
height to 6 stories facing the Walden neighborhood. Children coming home from school to Frost Terrace would feel a lot more like coming to their own houses than to this high-rise tower at a busy intersection.
Distance (miles) to Porter Square Frost Terrace
Porter Square Frost Terrace (1791 Mass Ave
Distance (miles) to Porter Square Frost Terrace
Porter Square Frost Terrace (1791 Mass Ave
Attached you will find my thoughts on Policy Order #4 Robert Camacho, 24 Corporal Burns Road, Cambridge, MA 02138 Packet Pg. 91
Robert Camacho Corporal Burns Road Cambridge, MA 02138
Day. East End House 105 Spring Street, Cambridge MA 02141 ecplanningteam@gmail.com
dance group, the Goldennaires, who performed all over Boston; and WHEREAS: Cecelia was a proud and active member of Western Avenue Baptist Church for decades; and
local community to finally be connected. He supports the petition. Maure Aronson, 720 Massachusetts Avenue, Executive Director of Global Arts Live. He stated that the petitioners have the support of Global Arts Live. This project is visionary in its architectural approach, it
for the Arts, Inc. Spoke in support of the proposal. This is a visionary and amazing mixed-use design. Brian Amador, 199 Pemberton Street, spoke in support of the project. The city is in dire need of performance spaces that are medium sized and small, and this project would provide both of those smaller
informal spaces on the ground floor and a medium sized, beautiful theatre on the third floor. Ken Field, 108 Pleasant Street, spoke in support of the project. At this time, performing performers and audiences are experiencing an ongoing loss of Performing Arts venues due in large part to the economic
been a good partner or providing dancing space. He fully supports the project. Carl Nagy-Koechlin, Executive Director at Just-A-Start, 1035 Cambridge Street. He spoke in favor of the project. Kendall Square is really at the center of that quest to get low- and moderate-income people, in
November 12, 2020 Anna Myer, 60 Dudley Street, spoke in support of the project. Not only does it bring people into the city, but people that go out to eat, they go shopping, it creates community at Kendall Square.
abutter and as a business partner. He spoke in support of the project. Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street, she stated that she wants the arts, space and the other community spaces to come to pass but does not want to pay too big a price for them. She hopes that in the
understandable zeal for the project that Kendall Square is not overloaded with buildings. Michael Monestime, 4 George Street, spoke in favor of the project. This is not a project that's going to be an eyesore to the neighborhood.
an eyesore to the neighborhood. William Harris, 8 Arlington Street, spoke in support for the project. The connection of indoors and outdoors will be truly unique.
at pharmacies). Cambridge City Hall | 795 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139 ssiddiqui@cambridgema.gov│617-349-4321│tty: 617-492-0235│cambridgema.gov
tricks to get outside in the winter months, and much more! Cambridge City Hall | 795 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139 ssiddiqui@cambridgema.gov│617-349-4321│tty: 617-492-0235│cambridgema.gov
Sumbul Siddiqui Cambridge City Hall | 795 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139 ssiddiqui@cambridgema.gov│617-349-4321│tty: 617-492-0235│cambridgema.gov
