Board of Zoning Appeal Cases BZA-017309-2020 -- 402 Rindge Avenue 147 General Business
General Business PB# 336 -- 1065 Cambridge Street – Extension (Letter) 215 P R O C E E D I N G S
guess I should just say what the cases are. On August 11, it's 101 Rogers Street, which is the Foundry building -- a special permit case, and 1908
Foundry building -- a special permit case, and 1908 Massachusetts Avenue, a retail cannabis store. On August hearing on the fossil fuel City Council Zoning Petition.
Board. As you know, my name is Mark McGovern, and I reside at 17 Pleasant Street in Cambridge, and I thank you for this opportunity.
David Sullivan. Lee Farris, you can start. LEE FARRIS: Good evening. Lee Farris, 269 Norfolk Street. I assume you can hear me?
DAVID SULLIVAN: Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board. My name is David Sullivan. I reside at 16 Notre Dame Avenue in North Cambridge, and I am a former member of
JEFF ROBERTS: Yes. GEORGE METZGER: Thank you. This is George Metzger. I reside at 90 Antrim Street. I have been the
GEORGE METZGER: Thank you. This is George Metzger. I reside at 90 Antrim Street. I have been the architect of a number of affordable housing developments
PETER DALY: Oh, great. My name is Peter Daly. I'm the Executive Director of Homeowner's Rehab in Central Square, Cambridge, 280 Franklin Street. I am here tonight
I'm the Executive Director of Homeowner's Rehab in Central Square, Cambridge, 280 Franklin Street. I am here tonight to ask you to pass the Overlay as presented. Just want to
CATHLEEN HIGGINS: Thank you. My name is Cathy Higgins. I live at 345 Norfolk Street. I very strongly support the Affordable Housing Overlay, and I urge the
Right now it is five to seven times the density of these areas in a place like Blanchard Road, with largely one story or 1.5 story homes will be really greatly impacted.
ESTHER HANIG: Hi. My name is Esther Hanig, and I live at 136 Pine Street. I want to express my strongest support for the Affordable Housing Overlay, and urge you to
Gombosi, followed by Christopher Schmidt. ELIZABETH GOMBOSI: Elizabeth Gombosi, 42 Irving Street. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the Board. I
CHRISTOPHER SCHMIDT: My name is Christopher Schmidt of 17 Laurel Street in Cambridge. Thank you, members of the Planning Board, for once again considering
TINA ALU: Hello. My name is Tina Alu, and I live at 113.5 Pleasant Street. I'm speaking as a Cambridge resident, but mostly as the Executive Director of the
opportunity to testify. I work at 1035 Cambridge Street, and I live at 52 Carruth Street in Dorchester. And I'm not going to go over
ROBERT CAMACHO: Thank you. My name is Robert Camacho. I live on Corporal Burns Road in Cambridge. I'm expressing my concern that the Planning Board is considering
followed by Susan Schlesinger. JAMES ZALL: This is James Zall at 203 Pemberton Street in North Cambridge. I'm speak to tonight in favor of
this whole process is being don't even. Are there other ways? You bet there are. There's a vacant lot at Cherry Street. What's been done there? It was donated by MIT.
handled differently a lot earlier than it was. What about the three hotels in Porter Square, two of which are in Cambridge? What about the residential units
of which are in Cambridge? What about the residential units that were turned into a hotel to Central Square? What about the building that the Historical
Commission -- the Commissioner, the Executive Director signed off in Central Square that's going to be a three- story addition for a boutique hotel? If you care about
to care about trees. They clear-cut 96 trees when they did the state (sic) side of Jefferson Park. They kept eight, and then during construction they took down another four.
have to have bicycle racks, which -- the rooms for the bicycle racks are largely empty here at Jefferson Park. But somehow, because some people like bicycles, that is
HEATHER HOFFMAN: Sure. Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street. And I would like to talk trees too. I have said many times in City Council testimony that poor people
Jason Alves is the next speaker, followed by M.K. Greenidge. JASON ALVES: Hi, this is Jason, East Cambridge Business Association at 877 Cambridge Street. We went in
JASON ALVES: Hi, this is Jason, East Cambridge Business Association at 877 Cambridge Street. We went in some comments a little bit late, so I just wanted to
And, you know, we could lose these spaces. Especially on Cambridge Street, these spaces are some of the more affordable commercial spaces in the city. And, you
M.K. GREENIDGE: Yes, thank you. My name is Myniece. I am at 402 Rindge Avenue in Cambridge. I speak tonight on behalf of affordable housing and in support of
hope to preserve that. But it should not just be the case at 402 Rindge Avenue. Diversity should be what it was previously in Cambridge.
And I just want to point out that other than Brattle Street, and maybe even including Brattle Street, there isn't a street in Cambridge that you can go down that
Brattle Street, and maybe even including Brattle Street, there isn't a street in Cambridge that you can go down that doesn't have different types of housing and different types
of architecture. I live on the corner of pleasant and Franklin Street. My family has been in this house for 101 years, and
particularly the ones that I'm familiar with, which are along Brattle Street and perhaps part of Fairweather and Lakeview and those streets, it just -- I have a hard time
what results is two-phased project. The first phase is the building that's right up on the corner of the Parkway and Rindge Avenue. We call that Building A. And this is going
building that's right up on the corner of the Parkway and Rindge Avenue. We call that Building A. And this is going to be a mixed-use building. It'll house Just-A-Start's
Vick. You can start, James Zall. JAMES ZALL: I'm James Zall of 203 Pemberton Street in North Cambridge. And I'm speaking in favor of the
is a huge concern. And probably people who live around here know how long it takes to get off of Rindge Avenue. Another one is he said that they want people to
THERESA SULLIVAN: Hi, my name is Theresa Sullivan, 6 Acorn Street, and I'd like to speak in support of Rindge Common. I am proud to have been born and raised
Sullivan, 6 Acorn Street, and I'd like to speak in support of Rindge Common. I am proud to have been born and raised in Cambridge, and I'm grateful to still be here. And I'd
trees on the north side don't grow off. You look at 30 Cambridge Park Drive, you can see what happens. I'm concerned about 100 percent affordable in
HEATHER HOFFMAN: Hello. Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street. I wanted to talk about trees again. I think that -- well, I was sad to hear that you're planning on
M.K. GREENIDGE: Yes, hi. My name is Myniece Greenidge. I reside at 402 Rindge Avenue. I'd like to just say that as a resident -- a lifelong resident of Cambridge -
Greenidge. I reside at 402 Rindge Avenue. I'd like to just say that as a resident -- a lifelong resident of Cambridge - - I am encouraged by the City of Cambridge and Just-A-Start
horror stories -- not just tonight, but previously from people in North Cambridge about how long it's taking to get down Rindge Avenue these days.
people in North Cambridge about how long it's taking to get down Rindge Avenue these days. But, you know, I mean, there's not much we can do
So I think it's really a great improvement. Mary, I do live at the other end of Rindge Avenue, and traffic on it is terrible during rush hour. But, you
the next item on the agenda is a request for an extension of time on case PB #336, 1065 Cambridge Street. CDD staff will explain why this is before us.
SWAATHI JOSEPH: Okay. So this is Planning Board Case Number PB #336. The address is 1043-1059 Cambridge Street, and this project was a mixed-use project approved
