Expenditures Account for the first year of a two-year lease of operating and office space for the Department of Public Works on Mooney Street. CMA 2020 #139
Next: 6/29/2020 5:30 PM premises numbered 56 Creighton Street; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works. No
Jun 22, 2020 6. A communication was received from Sharon deVos, 118 Antrim Street, regarding supporting Policy Order #10.
Jun 22, 2020 21. A communication was received from Andrew McLaughlin, 149 Auburn Street, regarding support for Policy Orders #1 and #9.
Jun 22, 2020 26. A communication was received from Edward Woll, 79 Dana Street, regarding support of Policy Order #10.
Jun 22, 2020 31. A communication was received from Banti Gheneti, 17 Pleasant Place, regarding support for Policy Orders 1 and 9.
Toomey, Councillor Zondervan Central Square Business Association in developing a pilot program that will allow Central Square to close to vehicular traffic on Sundays and allow restaurants to fully embrace the concept of outdoor
Next: 6/29/2020 5:30 PM Prospect Street to Portland Street) in the Port. CHARTER RIGHT EXERCISED BY COUNCILLOR ZONDERVAN IN COUNCIL JUNE 22, 2020
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
(Calendar Item #5) from 10/7/2019 Central Square Library branch. Vice Mayor Mallon, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (Calendar Item #8)
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Report on the potential for implementing sufficient traffic-calming solutions on Upton Street. Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (O-7) from 1/27/2020
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Councillor McGovern (O-8) from 1/27/2020 Report on working with the residents in the vicinity of Eustis Street to implement traffic calming measures on this street.
Fund Public Works Extraordinary Expenditures Account for the first year of a two-year lease of operating and office space for the Department of Public Works on Mooney Street. The City has secured a lease for 104,600 square feet of operating space and 4,800 square feet of
The City has secured a lease for 104,600 square feet of operating space and 4,800 square feet of office space located at 50-54 Mooney Street in the Concord/Alewife area of Cambridge. The site was formerly used as a transfer station for street sweeping and landscaping debris.
The leasing of this property will help to alleviate significant space shortages at the Public Works facility on Hampshire Street. The Department will be able to relocate its street sweeping, maintenance and landscaping operations, as well as various pieces of heavy equipment to the
accessibility, but other potential sensory, cognitive, and emotional barriers. The new park will be located on an unutilized 0.75 acre portion of Danehy Park adjacent to the Field Street Parking Lot. The location features off street parking and onsite maintenance staff.
• North-west corner of playground (gated), access from existing parking lot and Danehy Park fields; direct access to sensory walk activity area; • North-east corner of playground (gated), access from Garden Street/Briston Arms
Park fields; direct access to sensory walk activity area; • North-east corner of playground (gated), access from Garden Street/Briston Arms neighborhood and direct access to splash pad play area;
neighborhood and direct access to splash pad play area; • South-west corner of playground (gated), access from Field Street neighborhood and direct access to junior and senior play equipment areas;
direct access to junior and senior play equipment areas; • South-west corner of existing Field Street parking lot; enhanced pedestrian walkway adjacent to existing parking lot vehicular entrance area.
• Cambridge Arts Program - “Pipe Dreams” play sculpture/structure: custom-designed by high school students and faculty of NuVu Studio, a STEAM education school in Central Square;
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 56 Creighton Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material specified by the
Statement: Alison King, Policy #1/ #9 I am a resident of Cambridge living at 564 Green Street. I am emailing in concern to policy #1 and #9. Given the national conversation about police brutality, I believe we need to re-evaluate our approach to policing in
Such a project would be highly destructive to animal habitat, trees and the environment. I have posted an analysis of these people’s “achievements” on the Charles River at The Destruction of Memorial Drive, Cambridge, MA, USA, January - February 2016, Final Cut
In ternet. The Destruction of Memorial Drive, Cambridge, MA, USA, January - Februar...
Hello, I have requested to provide public comment at tonight's meeting, and wanted to submit it in writing as well. "Hello, my name is Kevin Wentworth, I live at 45 Pemberton Street, Unit 2, in North Cambridge. I’m commenting on policy orders 1 and 9. Instituting these policy orders will help to provide further transparency to
engineering, but I’m here today representing myself as a resident. I am writing to support policy order number 2 asking the City Manager implement the pilot program to close Central Square to vehicles on Sunday, and in fact ask that it be done on Saturdays as well. We’ve lost almost 100 residents due
to COVID, and now our businesses are dying. What’s the benefit of living in the city if our local spots close? We can help our businesses by giving them the room to spread out. I think it would be easy to keep Central Square open for buses and emergency vehicles, but also increase space for pedestrians and outdoor restaurant and retail. We need
Manager on this issue and have not received any response from his office. My mother, who uses a wheelchair and lives in Central Square, has not left her apartment since March because she has pre-existing conditions and she’s terrified to be near other people. If I am walking down the street and someone comes
pre-existing conditions and she’s terrified to be near other people. If I am walking down the street and someone comes by, I can pop off the curb to pass them safely assuming I am not hit by a speeding car (think Prospect Street). In a wheelchair, she has no place to go if the narrow sidewalks are full of people. I witnessed another wheelchair user get
wheelchair, she has no place to go if the narrow sidewalks are full of people. I witnessed another wheelchair user get honked at by a car on Lambert Street by Millers River Apts because he was riding in the street due to the poor width and condition of the sidewalk. How sad is it that vulnerable people have to put themselves at risk or be homebound because
ORDERED: In recent years, the City has frequently been asked by business owners in Central Square to consider piloting a “Car Free Sunday” program during the summer months,
possible, to draw more foot traffic to the area, and to bring a sense of vibrancy and vitality back to Central Square; and As the City prepares for the next phase of re-openings in the wake of the Covid-19
That the City Manager be and hereby is requested to direct the appropriate City staff to work with the Central Square Business Association in developing a pilot program that will allow Central Square to close to vehicular traffic on Sundays and allow restaurants
work with the Central Square Business Association in developing a pilot program that will allow Central Square to close to vehicular traffic on Sundays and allow restaurants to fully embrace the concept of outdoor dining for the summer months of 2020, and to
The need for such a centralized space is increasing due to the congregating of unhoused residents in Central Square without any day programming, and to their exposure to the sharply increasing heat outside, which puts them at risk for heat stroke,
These anti-racist little free libraries should be available in a variety of neighborhoods, including the Port (Harvard and Windsor), the Coast (Putnam and Magazine), Brattle Street and North Cambridge (Rindge and Massachusetts Ave.); now therefore be it
including the Port (Harvard and Windsor), the Coast (Putnam and Magazine), Brattle Street and North Cambridge (Rindge and Massachusetts Ave.); now therefore be it That the City Manager be and hereby is requested to confer with Director of
burdensome for residents; and A section of the sidewalk on Bishop Allen Drive between Columbia Street and Douglass Street has been completely closed to pedestrians for quite some time, and
That the City Manager be and hereby is requested to reinstitute the practice of dispatching crews of hand-sweepers from the Public Works Department to Harvard Street (between Prospect Street to Portland Street) in the Port on a regular basis to
dispatching crews of hand-sweepers from the Public Works Department to Harvard Street (between Prospect Street to Portland Street) in the Port on a regular basis to ensure that the City does a better job of keeping the streets and sidewalks in this
