will really be through the Sears and Macy's building streetscape Canal Park and Thorndike Way, and that's why you see on the site really the period of 2020 to 23, and then
highly acclaimed for its urban design as an urban mall that didn't use traditional anchors. It connected Charles Park to Canal Park.
didn't use traditional anchors. It connected Charles Park to Canal Park. It's many years later, and we have an opportunity
addresses, street-level retail that will activate sidewalks on First Street, on Cambridgeside and even around the corner on the Land Boulevard
on First Street, on Cambridgeside and even around the corner on the Land Boulevard The point of this slide is really the opportunity
-- to show the opportunity of creating more porosity through the site, the traditional from Charles Park to Canal Park, but also from the neighborhood into the retail for new
second setback at a height of 135 feet. These setbacks occur on First Street as well as on Cambridgeside Place. They obviously give the buildings a rhythm and a
will -- I will show you that all along First Street, as well as on Land Boulevard. On the next slide, you can see the sense of an
You can see in color the new lobby, with the adjacent retail, it wraps around Cambridgeside Place onto Land Boulevard. And then you can see all of those existing
adjacent retail, it wraps around Cambridgeside Place onto Land Boulevard. And then you can see all of those existing loading docks.
base of a new office lab building, with entrance on Cambridgeside Place. We're looking into the lobby on the first floor, a
of the mechanical floors on the top of the building. On page 20, you can see a long view down Land Boulevard. And you can see there the base, which is from
a lot of transparency on three sides; on the First Street side on Thorndike Way, and then on the Canal Park side… rusticated brick on the spandrels, and then up to the top of
sidewalk, and activate that edge. The next section is about Canal Park and streetscape improvements, and I want to show you a slide
#27, very similar to what John showed a moment ago. Everything's outlined in purple along Canal Park out onto First Street, part of 60 First; and then on the
out onto First Street, part of 60 First; and then on the corner of Cambridgeside and Land Boulevard are all [01:36:37 indiscernible per space] improvement.
If you go to the next slide, you can see -- I want to point out a series of improvements around Canal Park. And the numbers on the plan on the right correspond to the
the numbers on the plan on the right correspond to the pictures on the left. So now first is the edges of Canal Park, and on the North Side #1.
On the right #2 is the proposal for improvements to the underside of the Land Boulevard Bridge. And if you look just below that, you can see the existing bridge, or
I appreciate -- you know, the optical glass you're putting on top of the one on Land Boulevard, but it still looks pretty enormous, and I really will expect a pretty clear
It's actually set back from First Street by 15 feet, and set back on Thorndike Way, and set back on Canal Park. But I get your point, that -- you know, they are
on that open space, and thank you for the sheet that goes through the details on Canal Park. And thank you for saving the trees that are there.
And I appreciate the attitude of keeping the mature canopy that’s there on Canal Park. Tree canopy is a concern in the community right now, so that kind of attitude
We're going to need another, a few more looking down Land Boulevard and First Street -- again, to determine how the setbacks work. I'm quite optimistic that the
City Council that rather than -- still want you to do the work onto Canal, still want you to fix the area on the Land Boulevard, fix the pathways, do all that; but instead of
Just when I heard it, it just seemed like a shame not to complete the Canal Park area right to both ends of the Canal, but I understand the tradeoff.
HEATHER HOFFMAN: Hi, it's Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street. you can go ahead.
So as a reminder, the open space extends over two acres from Carlton Street over east to Wadsworth Street. And also, through densely treed streetscapes up to Main
acres from Carlton Street over east to Wadsworth Street. And also, through densely treed streetscapes up to Main Street with the new T station head house and plaza, which we
call the "Gateway" and sought help as an outpatient to Amherst Street. The open space itself, the core open space, is
Here notable: the new two-way cycle track, recently completed on Ames Street and sharrows. So a shared lane condition with paving markings on Wadsworth Street.
recently completed on Ames Street and sharrows. So a shared lane condition with paving markings on Wadsworth Street. [Next?]
pedestrians. Notable that at Hayward Street, vehicles are restricted in that central zone, so you will not have
you are standing on Carlton Street. You're looking east past Hayward Street towards Wadsworth. The Gateway is to the north to your left.
So what you see here shows how the project is maintaining the continuity and precedence of the Main Street public realm. This is the concrete and distinctive
paving transition with the edge of Building #4, creating a really crisp transaction from Main Street to the big Gateway.
architecture of the head housing canopy above, but also -- importantly -- mediating the scale from Main Street back into the broader, larger scale of the central open space.
Gateway as a function of that new MBTA head house design, as well as the adjacent development at 325 Main Street. [Next?]
confirming that there is a safe barrier along that edge on Hayward Street. So the original design had a 42-inch-tall concrete guard wall located along Hayward Street for the
Hayward Street. So the original design had a 42-inch-tall concrete guard wall located along Hayward Street for the Amherst Street entry to the garage ramp. Noting here that
concrete guard wall located along Hayward Street for the Amherst Street entry to the garage ramp. Noting here that there is a Bluebike station blocking the sidewalk from that
Share with the Planning Board: So here you are along Amherst Street and Site R. You get to see some flatwork. Here you are at the ambulance ramp wall and those
And then here on Charlotte's Way wrapping up around Dock Street, the pavers beginning to go in, the trees -- very excited, the top of the trees there and starting to
-- very excited, the top of the trees there and starting to And then finally wrapping up around to Main Street and Site 5. I think on the image to the left you see quite
and Site 5. I think on the image to the left you see quite clearly that crisp demarcation between the Main Street public realm and the Gateway aligning with the face of
technical comments? So following up again on the sidewalk next to Hayward Street, Maureen mentioned it's a 13, almost 14 feet to the Bluebike, but it leaves about 10 and three-
And that is the context that you're looking at does not include Amherst Street. Amherst Street is the principal vehicular and pedestrian access from one -- from
should be thinking about is immediately adjacent to this site are -- across the street is 100 Memorial Drive, where there are 270 additional residents or apartments, as well as
money on the proposition that when the Google building across the street goes on, that the Venturi effects on Main Street, which will whip into this area through this Gateway
This mitigation item, what was required was a replacement of traffic signals at the intersection of Main Street, Vassar Street and Galileo Way.
replacement of traffic signals at the intersection of Main Street, Vassar Street and Galileo Way. We went to extensive design process with VHB and
everybody is oriented, showing the existing intersection. Vassar Street's on your left. You have Galileo Way on the right, and then Main Street goes from top to bottom.
Vassar Street's on your left. You have Galileo Way on the right, and then Main Street goes from top to bottom. [Next slide, please?]
various development projects that have happened along Galileo Way and Binney Street, we've kind of picked up most of the stretches of Binney that we want to reconstruct and
Galileo Way and Binney Street, we've kind of picked up most of the stretches of Binney that we want to reconstruct and add better bicycle facilities and narrow the roadway; you
broadest 100:20 Broadway 1:5 bronze 49:5
