don't know that date yet. But the Planning Board will do its review. This is Case Number402 Rindge Avenue, the development of some additional affordable housing units.
Planning Board Case Number 355 -- a proposal by Budega for a cannabis retail store at 1686 Massachusetts Avenue within an existing retail space.
with our abutters, and as a result we have met with the Porter Square Neighborhood Association. And in addition, we have communicated with both our direct abutters, 1688 Mass
the landlord's rear yard where there is a brick path, with a gate that opens into the 10 Bowdoin Street parcel. And from there, a person can walk onto that
parcel, take a left, go into 1688 Mass Ave's parking lot, and then walk onto 10 Bowdoin Street. CONSTANTINE ALEXANDER: Okay. Any other
end of the brick path there is a gate; you will open the gate, and then there is an open wall -- a 10 Bowdoin Street parcel, which would then bring you onto the open back rear
parking lot of the 1682 parcel. You walk down that, you will go get onto Bowdoin Street. CATHERINE PRESTON CONNOLLY: Ted, does that
JEFF ROBERTS: So there is an easement with the 10 Bowdoin Street parcel, and then there's a verbal agreement with the 1682 Mass Ave parcel.
MARK GOTTLIEB: Yes, Mark with a k Gottlieb; G-o-t- t-l-i-e-b, and I'm at 43 Loomis Street in Cambridge. JEFF ROBERTS: Thanks. You can proceed.
work for this proposed dispensary without snuffing out a 38- year-old Cambridge institution and an important landmark between Harvard and Porter Square.
year-old Cambridge institution and an important landmark between Harvard and Porter Square. Stereo Jack's has been on Mass Ave since I moved
NICK RISTOPHOLOS: Hello, this is Nick Ristopholos, and I'm an attorney for 1688 Massachusetts Avenue, the direct abutter.
directly pointed out that there is no agreement that currently exists for rear access onto 10 Bowdoin Street, that is a patent lie.
be recorded. The 10 Bowdoin Street Condominium does not reflect any sort of easement to a tenement at 1686 Mass Ave, the
DEREK KOPON: Derek Kopon, D-e-r-e-k K-o-p-o-n, 8 Wright Street. you can proceed.
And, you know, there people complained about Harvard Square, about Central Square, about Inman Square -- this is just another location where it seems perfectly
an important one. This was also raised at several of the Central Square dispensary permits that we discussed. And I believe that Traffic and Parking has worked
I think back to a similar issue we dealt with on a Santander Bank not that long ago on Mass Ave in Central Square, where they similarly had an ADA accessibility issue
