CHARTER RIGHT premises numbered 9 Pine Street; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works. No response has
Jan 13, 2020 1. A communication was received from Bill Green, 67 Hammond Street, regarding prohibition of IV. COMMUNICATIONS
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
(Calendar Item #5) from 10/7/2019 Central Square Library branch. Vice Mayor Mallon, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (Calendar Item #8)
19-143. Report on the feasibility of piloting a program of assigning additional security officers to work collaboratively with and exclusively within Cambridge Housing Authority premises in and near Central Square and the Port.
officers to work collaboratively with and exclusively within Cambridge Housing Authority premises in and near Central Square and the Port. Councillor Simmons, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-2) from
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
McGovern (O-1) from 11/25/2019 Saville Street and Walden Street Mayor Siddiqui, Vice Mayor Devereux (O-4) from
support of the City Manager and City Council, the City funded an additional open site, at the Central Square Library and added Russell Field as an additional state funded site, resulting in 9 open park lunch sites across the City.
served from 11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m., Monday through Friday at the following open park sites: Danehy Park, Hoyt Field, Sennott Park, Green-Rose Heritage Park, Gold Star Mother’s Park/Gore Street, Hurley Street Playground, Central Square Library, Fresh Pond Apartment
Danehy Park, Hoyt Field, Sennott Park, Green-Rose Heritage Park, Gold Star Mother’s Park/Gore Street, Hurley Street Playground, Central Square Library, Fresh Pond Apartment Playground, and Russell Field. Over four thousand lunches were served during the Summer of
Park/Gore Street, Hurley Street Playground, Central Square Library, Fresh Pond Apartment Playground, and Russell Field. Over four thousand lunches were served during the Summer of During Summer 2019, lunches were also served at 25 camp sites. In total, 20,310 lunches,
Field. Evening meals were also provided in conjunction with the Book Bike Evening Events at public housing sites including Jefferson Park, 808 Memorial Drive, Roosevelt Towers, Walden Square, as well as at Clement Morgan Park.
public housing sites including Jefferson Park, 808 Memorial Drive, Roosevelt Towers, Walden Square, as well as at Clement Morgan Park. Overall, the pilot program was an enormous success. That success was based, in large part, on
Recreation Supervisors to do outreach for their assigned parks. The Department will also work with the Central Square Library on outreach for the upcoming summer to see how to attract more children and youth to the site.
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 9 Pine Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material specified by the
all abutting property owners to approve or not in relation to the proposed curb cut at 9 Pine Street. Forms with signatures (or not) shall but uploaded as the
remained good friends with her former husband, William; and Susan taught at Thorndike Street and Kennedy Schools in East Cambridge and was an active member of the CTA (now the CEA) serving as a local officer and ultimately as
with the Dedication Committee to consider the request from Angela Brathwaite for a street dedication in honor of her grandfather, William J. Brathwaite Sr., in the vicinity of Washburn Avenue and Massachusetts Avenue; and be it further
street dedication in honor of her grandfather, William J. Brathwaite Sr., in the vicinity of Washburn Avenue and Massachusetts Avenue; and be it further That the City Clerk be and hereby is requested to forward this order to the Dedication
