of $15,000,000 from Free Cash to the Affordable Housing Trust to assist in preserving affordability of units at Fresh Pond Apartments at 362 and 364 Rindge Avenue. CMA 2020 #54
PLACED ON FILE proposed Eversource substation on Fulkerson Street. CMA 2020 #56
III. APPLICATIONS AND PETITIONS premises numbered 53 Bow Street; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works. No response has been
ORDER ADOPTED for a temporary banner across JFK and Mount Auburn Streets announcing Cambridge Energy Alliance from March 23, 2020 thru March 30, 2020.
Mar 2, 2020 16. A communication was received from Rob and Mary Joan, 131 Huron Avenue, regarding Municipal RESULT:
Mar 2, 2020 24. A communication was received from Robert Camacho, 24 Corporal Burns Road, regarding Affordable Housing Overlay.
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
(Calendar Item #5) from 10/7/2019 Central Square Library branch. Vice Mayor Mallon, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (Calendar Item #8)
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Report on the potential for implementing sufficient traffic-calming solutions on Upton Street. Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (O-7) from 1/27/2020
Councillor Simmons, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Carlone (O-1) from Report on working with the residents in the vicinity of Eustis Street to implement traffic calming measures on this street.
Reappointments: Julie Asher, 23 Murdock Street; Ms. Asher is Associate Partner at New Profit, a national nonprofit venture philanthropy fund with a focus on education, social and financial stability, and healthy
Rev. Lorraine Thornhill, 211 Columbia Street; Rev. Thornhill is the pastor of the First Holiness Church, President of the Cambridge Black Pastors Alliance, and Chaplain with the Cambridge Police Chaplaincy
Rev. Lorraine Thornhill, 211 Columbia Street; Rev. Thornhill is the pastor of the First Holiness Church, President of the Cambridge Black Pastors Alliance, and Chaplain with the Cambridge Police Chaplaincy Program. She serves as the Commission’s liaison to the faith community.
Guidelines, and Order Establishing the District Igor Folkin Memorial Sculpture, Brattle Square Harvard Square Conservation District Study Committee
Igor Folkin Memorial Sculpture, Brattle Square Harvard Square Conservation District Study Committee Cambridge Historical Commission
Square Conservation District in response to concerns about the goals, jurisdiction, and administra- tion of the district. During an extended series of hearings on projects at 5 Kennedy Street (the Ab- bot Building) and 1-3 Brattle Street (&Pizza) many citizens expressed dissatisfaction with the scope
tion of the district. During an extended series of hearings on projects at 5 Kennedy Street (the Ab- bot Building) and 1-3 Brattle Street (&Pizza) many citizens expressed dissatisfaction with the scope of the District’s jurisdiction, the goals and guidelines for administration of the district (and their ap-
Amended Description and Guidelines for Subdistricts A. Harvard Square/Massachusetts Avenue B. Bow and Arrow Streets/Putnam Square
A. Harvard Square/Massachusetts Avenue B. Bow and Arrow Streets/Putnam Square C. The Gold Coast
B. Bow and Arrow Streets/Putnam Square C. The Gold Coast D. Winthrop Square/JFK Street
C. The Gold Coast D. Winthrop Square/JFK Street E. Eliot Square and Mt. Auburn Street
D. Winthrop Square/JFK Street E. Eliot Square and Mt. Auburn Street F. Brattle Square
E. Eliot Square and Mt. Auburn Street F. Brattle Square G. Church Street and Palmer Street
F. Brattle Square G. Church Street and Palmer Street VI.
ing the Harvard Square Conservation District). The Harvard Square Conservation District contains approximately 195 buildings in an area bounded by Massachusetts Avenue and Mt. Auburn, Eliot, Bennett, Story, and Church streets. Within the
The Harvard Square Conservation District contains approximately 195 buildings in an area bounded by Massachusetts Avenue and Mt. Auburn, Eliot, Bennett, Story, and Church streets. Within the district the Cambridge Historical Commission has binding review over demolition, new construc-
by Massachusetts Avenue and Mt. Auburn, Eliot, Bennett, Story, and Church streets. Within the district the Cambridge Historical Commission has binding review over demolition, new construc- tion, and publicly visible exterior alterations to existing buildings, and can, in appropriate cases, im-
meaning and limitations of historic preservation. The Read Block, 1380-1392 Massachusetts Avenue, in 1968 and as restored. A study committee appointed by the City Manager first considered the area for designation as an
Square. For example, the Commission has ap- proved a steaming bagel on J.F. Kennedy Street, retro neon signs at 15 Brattle Street and 52
proved a steaming bagel on J.F. Kennedy Street, retro neon signs at 15 Brattle Street and 52 Church Street, and internally illuminated pro-
retro neon signs at 15 Brattle Street and 52 Church Street, and internally illuminated pro- jecting signs at 11-21 Dunster Street and several
Church Street, and internally illuminated pro- jecting signs at 11-21 Dunster Street and several other locations. Signs inside buildings but visi-
tained or restored. Examples of storefront alterations that required no public hearing before the Commission include the restoration of the brownstone arches at 18, 20, and 22 J.F. Kennedy Street and the restoration of the original storefront at 1270 Massachusetts Avenue. At 18 JFK Street a re-
Commission include the restoration of the brownstone arches at 18, 20, and 22 J.F. Kennedy Street and the restoration of the original storefront at 1270 Massachusetts Avenue. At 18 JFK Street a re- tailer initially wanted to install a new storefront, but when Commission staff explained that restora-
arches (out of four in the same building) were subsequently restored by a different tenant. Similarly, at 1270 Massachusetts Avenue projecting window bays installed in the 1970s, prior to the designa- tion of the District, were removed in favor of restoration of the original plate glass windows and
that there is still plenty of creative thought being focused on commercial design in Harvard Square. Storefront ren- ovations at 50 Church Street for Dado Tea opened up the
on commercial design in Harvard Square. Storefront ren- ovations at 50 Church Street for Dado Tea opened up the concrete corner of the building to make a new entrance
more inviting to the pedestrian. The Black Ink storefront at 5 Brattle Street was a significant departure from that of the previous tenant but was approved with staff review.
The intensely controversial storefront alterations for &pizza at 1-3 Brattle Street in 2017 were approved by staff because they preserved the original structure of the
public hearing. Only one of the four has been altered since the District was established. The se- verely deteriorated wooden storefront at 40 Bow Street was restored under a Certificate of Appro- priateness issued in 2012.
that involved complete restoration of significant buildings. The Hycinthe Purcell tenement at 40 Bow Street (1889), a four-story wood frame building, was restored in 2012-2016. Waverly Hall Harvard Trust Co. façade, 1408-1414 Massa-
Bow Street (1889), a four-story wood frame building, was restored in 2012-2016. Waverly Hall Harvard Trust Co. façade, 1408-1414 Massa- chusetts Ave. Photo ca. 1958.
chusetts Ave. Photo ca. 1958. Purcell Tenement, 40 Bow Street, and the Conductor’s Building, 112 Mt. Auburn Street ,after restoration (1902), a six-story former private dormitory at 115 Mt. Auburn Street that proved to be in much
Purcell Tenement, 40 Bow Street, and the Conductor’s Building, 112 Mt. Auburn Street ,after restoration (1902), a six-story former private dormitory at 115 Mt. Auburn Street that proved to be in much worse condition than originally known, was meticulously restored during the same period. The
activity did not resume until 2016, when the new owners of the Abbot Building, the former Corco- ran’s Department Store, and 18 Brattle Street announced plans to redevelop that site. Packet Pg. 43
Packet Pg. 43 In April 2001 the Commission denied an application by Harvard University for permission to con- struct a new building on Mt. Auburn Street. The University had selected Hans Hollein, a Viennese
In April 2001 the Commission denied an application by Harvard University for permission to con- struct a new building on Mt. Auburn Street. The University had selected Hans Hollein, a Viennese Expressionist architect who had won the Pritzker Prize in 1985, to design a technology services
Expressionist architect who had won the Pritzker Prize in 1985, to design a technology services building for the Harvard Libraries at 88-96 Mount Auburn Street. On the site were an 1895 triple- decker and a two-story commercial building of 1971. The site, near the center of the original village
mal heating and cooling system, eliminating the need for rooftop condensers. The theater/office building at Zero Arrow Street that was ap- proved in 2002 remains the only new construction on an
this project provided pedestrian access between the Kerry Corner neighborhood and Massachusetts Avenue. Packet Pg. 44
Packet Pg. 44 Market Theater, Zero Arrow Street (2002) In 2004 the Commission approved Harvard University’s plan to demolish and rebuild part of the
Market Theater, Zero Arrow Street (2002) In 2004 the Commission approved Harvard University’s plan to demolish and rebuild part of the Hasty Pudding theater at 12 Holyoke Street. Harvard razed the theater, which was not accessible
In 2004 the Commission approved Harvard University’s plan to demolish and rebuild part of the Hasty Pudding theater at 12 Holyoke Street. Harvard razed the theater, which was not accessible and did not meet modern code requirements, and restored the brick clubhouse on Holyoke Street.
Hasty Pudding theater at 12 Holyoke Street. Harvard razed the theater, which was not accessible and did not meet modern code requirements, and restored the brick clubhouse on Holyoke Street. The public visibility of the new theater was limited, and several floors were constructed below
busway and Conductor’s Building at 112 Mt. Auburn. The adjacent wood-frame Trinity Hall at 114 Mt. Auburn Street, a deteriorated former private dormitory, was demolished so that the Conductor’s Building, the last surviving structure erected by the Boston Elevated Railway during the construc-
properties, decided to begin liquidating its holdings. The Dow-Stearns holdings dated back to the early years of the 20th century, and by the 1990s included 1-8 and 17-41 Brattle Street, the Abbot Building at 1-5 Kennedy Street, the adjoining former Corcoran’s store (with frontage on Brattle
early years of the 20th century, and by the 1990s included 1-8 and 17-41 Brattle Street, the Abbot Building at 1-5 Kennedy Street, the adjoining former Corcoran’s store (with frontage on Brattle Street), and 18 Brattle Street. By 2015 the trust had owned some of these properties for almost a
Building at 1-5 Kennedy Street, the adjoining former Corcoran’s store (with frontage on Brattle Street), and 18 Brattle Street. By 2015 the trust had owned some of these properties for almost a century and had long managed them for a steady income from a carefully curated group of tenants.
the Commission approved a Certificate of Appropriateness for a project that involved restoration of the Abbot Building and 18 Brattle Street and replacement of the former Corcoran’s store with a new structure. The Planning Board held further hearings, and in the spring of 2018 granted the project a
Abbot Building, stages of CHC design review from October 2016 (adding a glass box above Corcoran’s/Urban Outfit- ters) to May 2017 (new construction and restoration of the Abbot Building and 18 Brattle Street). PCA Architects. The Abbot Building hearings raised issues of the appropriateness of the proposed demolition, the
embedded LED lights, a feature that is not clearly within the jurisdiction of the District. The Dow- Stearns properties at 1-8 Brattle Street and 17-41 Brattle Street, comprising 55,000 square feet of mostly ground-floor retail space, changed hands for $105 million in December 2017. The one-story
buildings at 17-41 have a significant volume of unused FAR, the development of which will pro- foundly affect the future of Brattle Square. Also, Harvard University’s Church Street parking lot has significant development potential. See the subdistrict section below for a discussion of these
Significant additions have been relatively rare in the District. In 2000, during the study period, the Commission approved the addition of two stories to the former Quincy Square Garage at 1230 Massachusetts Avenue (1907). The highly significant Cox-Hicks house at 98 Winthrop Street (ca.
Commission approved the addition of two stories to the former Quincy Square Garage at 1230 Massachusetts Avenue (1907). The highly significant Cox-Hicks house at 98 Winthrop Street (ca. for residential occupancy and could not be easily adapted for other uses. In 2001 a new owner de-
veloped a plan to convert it to a restaurant and link it via a bridge to his adjacent restaurant, Char- lie’s Kitchen at 10 Eliot Street. After lengthy negotiations, the Commission approved an adaptive reuse project that involved razing several additions and constructing a new dining room on a canti-
house was then restored inside and out. In 2012-2014 the Commission approved rooftop additions at 57 J.F. Kennedy Street and 14-16 Eliot Street. 57 JFK (1974) was a two-story enclosed mall and 16-18 Eliot (1993) was a two-story com-
In 2012-2014 the Commission approved rooftop additions at 57 J.F. Kennedy Street and 14-16 Eliot Street. 57 JFK (1974) was a two-story enclosed mall and 16-18 Eliot (1993) was a two-story com- mercial building designed as a placeholder after the former building was destroyed by a fire in 1990
(see photo below). Preservation of the original structures not being an issue, the Commission fo- cused in the former case on the structure’s proximity to Winthrop Park and eventually approved a design that stepped back from Winthrop Street to minimize shadows; this project is cur-
cused in the former case on the structure’s proximity to Winthrop Park and eventually approved a design that stepped back from Winthrop Street to minimize shadows; this project is cur- rently under construction. At 16-18 Eliot Street the additional height was controversial and mem-
approved a design that stepped back from Winthrop Street to minimize shadows; this project is cur- rently under construction. At 16-18 Eliot Street the additional height was controversial and mem- bers of the public criticized the contemporary design of colored synthetic panels as inappropriate
Below-grade commercial spaces can accommodate intensive non-retail activities that sup- port the commercial vitality of the commercial core in the Harvard Square and Brattle Square subdistricts.
pedestrian safety while preserving traditional urban materials and street furniture. The committee discussed the separation of bicycle and automobile traffic on Brattle Street through the introduction of a two-way curbside bicycle path and flex posts. The committee
Potential candidates for illumination in the Conservation District include the First Parish Church, the Charles Sumner statue, the Harvard Lampoon, the Abbot Building, the William Brattle House, St. Paul Church, and 48 Brattle Street (former Design Research building).
Church, the Charles Sumner statue, the Harvard Lampoon, the Abbot Building, the William Brattle House, St. Paul Church, and 48 Brattle Street (former Design Research building). ture. Color temperatures over 5000 K are called "cool colors" (bluish), while lower color temperatures (2700–3000 K)
requiring Commission rather than staff approval of alterations: • 1304 Massachusetts Avenue (Felix Shoe Repair) • 1316 Massachusetts Avenue (Leavitt & Pierce)
• 1304 Massachusetts Avenue (Felix Shoe Repair) • 1316 Massachusetts Avenue (Leavitt & Pierce) • 1320-22 Massachusetts Avenue (J. August)
• 1316 Massachusetts Avenue (Leavitt & Pierce) • 1320-22 Massachusetts Avenue (J. August) • 30-30A Plympton Street (Blue Bottle Coffee)
• 1320-22 Massachusetts Avenue (J. August) • 30-30A Plympton Street (Blue Bottle Coffee) Alterations to these storefronts, including installation or alteration of signs, requires a Certificate of
Amended Description and Guidelines for Subdistricts Harvard Square/Massachusetts Avenue Bow Street and Arrow Street/Putnam Square
Harvard Square/Massachusetts Avenue Bow Street and Arrow Street/Putnam Square The Gold Coast
Bow Street and Arrow Street/Putnam Square The Gold Coast The 1986 Development Guidelines divided the Harvard Square Overlay District into six subdistricts
G. Eliot Square/Mt. Auburn Street Brattle Square
Eliot Square/Mt. Auburn Street Brattle Square Church Street
Brattle Square Church Street Packet Pg. 65
Subdistrict A: Harvard Square/Massachusetts Avenue Harvard Square subdistrict
Subdistrict A: Harvard Square/Massachusetts Avenue Harvard Square subdistrict Google Maps ©2019
Description This subdistrict includes Harvard Square proper and the south side of Massachusetts Avenue as far as Quincy
This subdistrict includes Harvard Square proper and the south side of Massachusetts Avenue as far as Quincy Square. The area marks the intersection of town and
Overlay District (red) structed around the Square in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Massachusetts Avenue from Dunster Street to Quincy Square was developed in the 19th century with mixed-use private dormito-
structed around the Square in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Massachusetts Avenue from Dunster Street to Quincy Square was developed in the 19th century with mixed-use private dormito- ries and student clubs and continues to serve students with retail stores and services. The MBTA
Three- to five-story structures built out to the sidewalk predominate on the south and west sides of Massachusetts Avenue at Harvard Square. These include the Cambridge Savings Bank, the Read Block, the Abbot Building, 1-8 Brattle Street, the Harvard Cooperative Society, College House, and
Massachusetts Avenue at Harvard Square. These include the Cambridge Savings Bank, the Read Block, the Abbot Building, 1-8 Brattle Street, the Harvard Cooperative Society, College House, and the Harvard Square Kiosk. Of these, the Abbot Building (1909) pioneered the Georgian Revival
Block, the Abbot Building, 1-8 Brattle Street, the Harvard Cooperative Society, College House, and the Harvard Square Kiosk. Of these, the Abbot Building (1909) pioneered the Georgian Revival Style that was recommended in 1913 by the Harvard Square Business Association as appropriate
for a collegiate business center. Certain mid-twentieth-century structures, such as the Smith Cam- pus Center and the Bank of America (former Harvard Trust Company) facade, have attained their own significance. The mixed-use dormitories and clubs further east on Massachusetts Avenue are
pus Center and the Bank of America (former Harvard Trust Company) facade, have attained their own significance. The mixed-use dormitories and clubs further east on Massachusetts Avenue are of great architectural and historic significance. The smaller scale buildings on the side streets down
of great architectural and historic significance. The smaller scale buildings on the side streets down to Mt. Auburn Street vary in quality and significance but provide a valuable context for the grander architecture on the avenue and on the Gold Coast. Retention of the small retail storefronts that add
to Mt. Auburn Street vary in quality and significance but provide a valuable context for the grander architecture on the avenue and on the Gold Coast. Retention of the small retail storefronts that add vitality to the streetscape should be a high priority, along with returning bank storefronts to retail
sign vocabulary – wire cut brick sidewalks, granite feature strips and bollards, and Washington- style light fixtures – was carried over to the west side of the Square and down Brattle and Eliot streets to Bennett Street. The sidewalks from Church Street to Bennett Street were rebuilt with
style light fixtures – was carried over to the west side of the Square and down Brattle and Eliot streets to Bennett Street. The sidewalks from Church Street to Bennett Street were rebuilt with wire-cut clay pavers for enhanced accessibility about 2010. Forbes Plaza was reconstructed in
the Abbot Building, substantial development potential still exists in the heart of the Square and along Massachusetts Avenue. Rehabilitation of existing structures should be the highest priority; there are no “soft” sites in the subdistrict where demolition and new construction could be consid-
vated space accommodates both retail and office uses. The Read Block, 1380-92 Massachusetts Avenue and 2-14 Kennedy Street Storefronts restored by removal of later accretions, 1300-1310 Massachusetts Avenue
The Read Block, 1380-92 Massachusetts Avenue and 2-14 Kennedy Street Storefronts restored by removal of later accretions, 1300-1310 Massachusetts Avenue Packet Pg. 70
be encouraged in this subdistrict. Careful attention should be paid to materials, storefront design, and signage. The 1907 Art Nouveau storefront at 1304 Massachusetts Avenue by Coolidge & Carl- son is an example of exceptional storefront design. The unique lines, transparency, and high-quality
unique, but some demonstrate the timelessness of an exceptional design. Removal of incompatible materials and restoration of original elements, as at 1300-1310 Massachusetts Avenue, can rein- force traditional character while supporting commercial vitality.
force traditional character while supporting commercial vitality. Coes & Young storefront, 1304 Massachusetts Avenue (1907, Coolidge & Carlson, architects).
Coes & Young storefront, 1304 Massachusetts Avenue (1907, Coolidge & Carlson, architects). Packet Pg. 71
Subdistrict B: Bow Street and Arrow Street/Putnam Square Bow and Arrow Streets/Putnam Square Subdistrict
Subdistrict B: Bow Street and Arrow Street/Putnam Square Bow and Arrow Streets/Putnam Square Subdistrict Google Maps ©2019
Description This subdistrict includes properties on Bow Street and Arrow Street and along the converging lines of Massachusetts Ave-
This subdistrict includes properties on Bow Street and Arrow Street and along the converging lines of Massachusetts Ave- nue and Mount Auburn Street from Quincy Square to Re-
Street and along the converging lines of Massachusetts Ave- nue and Mount Auburn Street from Quincy Square to Re- mington Street and the edge of Putnam Square. Putnam
nue and Mount Auburn Street from Quincy Square to Re- mington Street and the edge of Putnam Square. Putnam Square proper and the intersection of Massachusetts Avenue
mington Street and the edge of Putnam Square. Putnam Square proper and the intersection of Massachusetts Avenue and Mount Auburn Street are in the Harvard Square Overlay
Square proper and the intersection of Massachusetts Avenue and Mount Auburn Street are in the Harvard Square Overlay District but are not within the boundaries of the Harvard
and Mount Auburn Street are in the Harvard Square Overlay District but are not within the boundaries of the Harvard Square Conservation District.
the former Reversible Collar factory. Wood-frame homes abut modern office buildings. Along Massachusetts Avenue most buildings include retail on the ground floor, but there
most buildings include retail on the ground floor, but there are currently no retail uses along Mt. Auburn Street. Boundaries of the Conservation District (blue)
Google Maps ©2019 Bow and Arrow Streets/Putnam Square Subdistrict The tallest structures in this subdistrict are the campanile of St. Paul's Catholic Church, the spire of
The tallest structures in this subdistrict are the campanile of St. Paul's Catholic Church, the spire of the Old Cambridge Baptist Church (in the Mid Cambridge Neighborhood Conservation District), and the residential tower at 1105 Massachusetts Avenue. The locations of these towers correspond
the Old Cambridge Baptist Church (in the Mid Cambridge Neighborhood Conservation District), and the residential tower at 1105 Massachusetts Avenue. The locations of these towers correspond with the triangular boundaries of the subdistrict. The careful siting of the Old Cambridge Baptist
and the residential tower at 1105 Massachusetts Avenue. The locations of these towers correspond with the triangular boundaries of the subdistrict. The careful siting of the Old Cambridge Baptist Church at the intersection of Massachusetts Avenue and Harvard Street allows the spire to be seen
with the triangular boundaries of the subdistrict. The careful siting of the Old Cambridge Baptist Church at the intersection of Massachusetts Avenue and Harvard Street allows the spire to be seen from several viewpoints, making it a prominent landmark in historic and contemporary photo-
from several viewpoints, making it a prominent landmark in historic and contemporary photo- graphs. The transition from Putnam Square to the residential scale of the Kerry Corner/Riverside neighborhood is evident along Mount Auburn Street.
graphs. The transition from Putnam Square to the residential scale of the Kerry Corner/Riverside neighborhood is evident along Mount Auburn Street. Historically, this area included small residences, light industry, and churches. Though industries are
Historically, this area included small residences, light industry, and churches. Though industries are no longer active, the former Reversible Collar factory at 8-20 Arrow Street and 21-27 Mount Au- burn Street is still a dynamic structure that was adaptively re-used for retail and office space in the
the mid-2000s. The large mixed-use buildings in Putnam Square went up mostly in the mid-1970s, replacing one-story storefronts. Construction of the Sundance Residences at 1075 Massachusetts Avenue in 2011 (in the Overlay District, but not in the Conservation District) completed the modern
Google Maps ©2019 Putnam Square, a very busy traffic intersection, did not contain many amenities for pedestrians until not as lushly landscaped as Quincy Square. The publicly-owned gore at the corner of Arrow Street
Putnam Square, a very busy traffic intersection, did not contain many amenities for pedestrians until not as lushly landscaped as Quincy Square. The publicly-owned gore at the corner of Arrow Street and Massachusetts Avenue was landscaped by the city in 1991 after an unsuccessful attempt by an
not as lushly landscaped as Quincy Square. The publicly-owned gore at the corner of Arrow Street and Massachusetts Avenue was landscaped by the city in 1991 after an unsuccessful attempt by an abutting restaurant to privatize it. It receives minimal maintenance and represents an opportunity for
Packet Pg. 74 Veritas Hotel, 1131 Massachusetts Avenue Private Sites
placed a former filling station in 1990 and a mixed-use building at Zero Arrow Street went up on an open site in sachusetts Avenue was redeveloped with two new stories
development occurred in 2007 with the construction of the Veritas Hotel at 1131 Massachusetts Avenue. The design for this project, which was substantially a replica of an
and redevelopment that threaten the character of the subdistrict. Near the intersection of Massachu- setts Avenue and Bow Street a group of small-scale frame and brick buildings represents a 140-year span of residential and commercial building construction in Harvard Square. The earliest buildings
setts Avenue and Bow Street a group of small-scale frame and brick buildings represents a 140-year span of residential and commercial building construction in Harvard Square. The earliest buildings in the cluster, 12 Bow Street (ca. 1820) and
span of residential and commercial building construction in Harvard Square. The earliest buildings in the cluster, 12 Bow Street (ca. 1820) and amples of residential buildings that were
later converted to commercial uses. Other clusters occur at the intersection of Arrow Street and Massachusetts Avenue (two
clusters occur at the intersection of Arrow Street and Massachusetts Avenue (two buildings) and at 1112-1134 Massachusetts
Street and Massachusetts Avenue (two buildings) and at 1112-1134 Massachusetts Avenue (six buildings). Some buildings in
Denser development should be confined to Putnam Square. The industrial character of the Reversi- ble Collar complex should be protected. The quiet, residential character along Mount Auburn Street
Denser development should be confined to Putnam Square. The industrial character of the Reversi- ble Collar complex should be protected. The quiet, residential character along Mount Auburn Street should be maintained, and the wood-frame structures there should be preserved. Development or
Reversible Collar complex, Arrow Street Packet Pg. 77
Description The Gold Coast subdistrict includes Mount Auburn Street from Bow and DeWolfe streets west to Winthrop Park and the side streets north toward Massachusetts Avenue and south toward the River
The Gold Coast subdistrict includes Mount Auburn Street from Bow and DeWolfe streets west to Winthrop Park and the side streets north toward Massachusetts Avenue and south toward the River houses. This area was initially developed in the 1830s-60s as a residential neighborhood and re-
Phoenix-S.K. Club, 72 Mt. Auburn Street; Iroquois Club, 74 Mt. Auburn; Spee Club, 76 Mt. Auburn; Kappa Gamma Chi, 78 Mt. Auburn; Signet Society, 46 Dunster Street; and D.U. Club, 45 Dunster. Photo 1973.
Phoenix-S.K. Club, 72 Mt. Auburn Street; Iroquois Club, 74 Mt. Auburn; Spee Club, 76 Mt. Auburn; Kappa Gamma Chi, 78 Mt. Auburn; Signet Society, 46 Dunster Street; and D.U. Club, 45 Dunster. Photo 1973. Before the district was established many of the Harvard clubs donated preservation easements to the
Chi, 78 Mt. Auburn; Signet Society, 46 Dunster Street; and D.U. Club, 45 Dunster. Photo 1973. Before the district was established many of the Harvard clubs donated preservation easements to the City, granting review of alterations to the Historical Commission.18 Several former club buildings
Public Spaces The triangular David Halberstam Park at the intersection of Mt. Auburn and Bow Streets was cre- ated in the early 2000s by enclosing a previously undifferentiated area of pavement in front of the
trict, cannot be maintained in the vicinity of the Lampoon building. The adjacent open lot on Mt. Auburn Street in front of Lowell House owned by Harvard University provides the only expanse of green in the subdistrict.
examples of wood frame construction remain. Among the most vulnerable may be 20 and 22 Ho- lyoke Street; the Greek Revival house (once a student club, now offices) at 43-45 Mount Auburn Street; a long-unoccupied Greek Revival at 41 Winthrop Street and an adjoining vacant lot owned
lyoke Street; the Greek Revival house (once a student club, now offices) at 43-45 Mount Auburn Street; a long-unoccupied Greek Revival at 41 Winthrop Street and an adjoining vacant lot owned by Harvard University; and
Street; a long-unoccupied Greek Revival at 41 Winthrop Street and an adjoining vacant lot owned by Harvard University; and a trio of houses at 69 and
Alterations to the club buildings on the south side of Mount Auburn Street to enable commercial develop-
regulated, and when commercial uses are abandoned (as at 76 Mt. Auburn Street in 2019) the structures should
text and open space considerations. South Street (behind Bryan Hall) and Dunster Street (right), with 60 JFK Street (1929), 21 South Street (1956), 17 South Street (1824), and 71-77 Dunster Street (1894) and 69 Dunster Street (1829).
South Street (behind Bryan Hall) and Dunster Street (right), with 60 JFK Street (1929), 21 South Street (1956), 17 South Street (1824), and 71-77 Dunster Street (1894) and 69 Dunster Street (1829). Cambridge GIS, 2014
South Street (1824), and 71-77 Dunster Street (1894) and 69 Dunster Street (1829). Cambridge GIS, 2014 Harvard’s lot on Mount Auburn Street at the corner of Holyoke Place, its parking lot at 19 South
Cambridge GIS, 2014 Harvard’s lot on Mount Auburn Street at the corner of Holyoke Place, its parking lot at 19 South Street, and its lot at 41 Winthrop Street, as well as the privately-owned one-story commercial build-
Harvard’s lot on Mount Auburn Street at the corner of Holyoke Place, its parking lot at 19 South Street, and its lot at 41 Winthrop Street, as well as the privately-owned one-story commercial build- ings at 45½-49 Mount Auburn Street are the most obvious potential development sites to monitor.
Street, and its lot at 41 Winthrop Street, as well as the privately-owned one-story commercial build- ings at 45½-49 Mount Auburn Street are the most obvious potential development sites to monitor. New construction on these sites should be carefully evaluated to ensure that the projects respect
ings at 45½-49 Mount Auburn Street are the most obvious potential development sites to monitor. New construction on these sites should be carefully evaluated to ensure that the projects respect their immediate context in terms of materials, massing, and placement. For example, Rosovsky
their immediate context in terms of materials, massing, and placement. For example, Rosovsky Hall, the Harvard Hillel Center at 56 Mount Auburn Street, was designed by architect Moshe Safdie in 1993 to complement the Fly Club and the Harvard Lampoon.
Hall, the Harvard Hillel Center at 56 Mount Auburn Street, was designed by architect Moshe Safdie in 1993 to complement the Fly Club and the Harvard Lampoon. Rosovsky Hall, 60 Mt. Auburn Street
in 1993 to complement the Fly Club and the Harvard Lampoon. Rosovsky Hall, 60 Mt. Auburn Street Safdie Architects
The Library Services building at 90 Mt. Auburn Street was the result of a development process that initially disregarded the context of the site, as described above. While a vast improvement over the
Description John F. Kennedy Street is a primary entry to Harvard Square from Memorial Drive and Boston. The subdistrict includes the properties around Winthrop Square, nearby on Winthrop Street, and on JFK
John F. Kennedy Street is a primary entry to Harvard Square from Memorial Drive and Boston. The subdistrict includes the properties around Winthrop Square, nearby on Winthrop Street, and on JFK Street from Eliot Street to Harvard Square. At the center is Winthrop Square Park, an unbuilt house
subdistrict includes the properties around Winthrop Square, nearby on Winthrop Street, and on JFK Street from Eliot Street to Harvard Square. At the center is Winthrop Square Park, an unbuilt house lot in the 1630 settlement of Newtowne that was a public marketplace in the eighteenth and early
district shares the urban character and development goals of the Gold Coast. Two large buildings – the Galeria at 57 JFK and the Harvard Square Garage at the corner of Eliot Street – occupy sites that were cleared for filling stations in the 1920s and offered uncharacteristi-
restoration, adaptive reuse, and sensitive infill construction. The relocation of the Chapman Heirs' House to face Winthrop Square and the renovation of the former Pi Eta Club (Grendel's Den/Pars- nip) at 91 Winthrop Street secured the setting of this important open space.
House to face Winthrop Square and the renovation of the former Pi Eta Club (Grendel's Den/Pars- nip) at 91 Winthrop Street secured the setting of this important open space. The 18th century wall that runs behind the properties on Winthrop, Eliot, and South Streets is a criti-
nip) at 91 Winthrop Street secured the setting of this important open space. The 18th century wall that runs behind the properties on Winthrop, Eliot, and South Streets is a criti- cally-important artifact of early development in Harvard Square and should be protected and ex-
The 18th century wall that runs behind the properties on Winthrop, Eliot, and South Streets is a criti- cally-important artifact of early development in Harvard Square and should be protected and ex- posed to public view in any future development.
Winthrop Street retaining wall, as seen between 8 and 10-14 Eliot Street, 1909 BERy Collection, CHC
BERy Collection, CHC Winthrop Street retaining wall (ca. 1800), behind 16 Eliot Street CHC photo, 2015
attract more visitors should be resisted. Winthrop Street as a shared street. Winthrop Square Park.
Winthrop Street as a shared street. Winthrop Square Park. Photo 2014.
Photo 2014. About 1990 the block of Winthrop Street between JFK Street and Eliot
About 1990 the block of Winthrop Street between JFK Street and Eliot Square was reconstructed as a pedes-
cies remaining except at the corner of Brattle Street, where the sidewalk will be reconfigured as the Abbot Building
development, but preservation of these wood frames should be among the highest priorities of the District. The Fox Club at the corner of Mt. Auburn Street offers a calming presence and could not be ap-
Subdistrict E: Eliot Square and Mt. Auburn Street Eliot Square and Mt. Auburn St., looking west. Taubman Hall, Charles Square and University Place lie outside the district
Subdistrict E: Eliot Square and Mt. Auburn Street Eliot Square and Mt. Auburn St., looking west. Taubman Hall, Charles Square and University Place lie outside the district Eliot Square and Mt. Auburn Street from the north.
Eliot Square and Mt. Auburn St., looking west. Taubman Hall, Charles Square and University Place lie outside the district Eliot Square and Mt. Auburn Street from the north. Cambridge GIS, 2014
Eliot Square and Mt. Auburn Street from the north. Cambridge GIS, 2014 Packet Pg. 88
Description Eliot Square (as the intersection of Mt. Auburn and Eliot streets is known) was created in 1809 when Mt. Auburn Street was extended across the old village and the William Brattle estate toward
Eliot Square (as the intersection of Mt. Auburn and Eliot streets is known) was created in 1809 when Mt. Auburn Street was extended across the old village and the William Brattle estate toward Watertown. This urban fringe area on the southwest corner of the village facing the Ox Marsh con-
what neglected corner of the Square. Proposals to redevelop the Harvard Square Hotel and the three Robert Banker prop- erties at 12, 14 and16 Eliot Street were scuttled by neighbor-
the Harvard Square Hotel and the three Robert Banker prop- erties at 12, 14 and16 Eliot Street were scuttled by neighbor- hood opposition, but in 1990 a fire destroyed the latter prop-
hood opposition, but in 1990 a fire destroyed the latter prop- erty, a three-decker, and it was replaced by a two story “placeholder,” as the owner put it. Belmont Hall at 121 Mt. Auburn Street (site of the popular Blue Parrot Restaurant) fell in 1987, to be re-
erty, a three-decker, and it was replaced by a two story “placeholder,” as the owner put it. Belmont Hall at 121 Mt. Auburn Street (site of the popular Blue Parrot Restaurant) fell in 1987, to be re- placed by an office building, and Harvard allowed The Craigie (also known as Craigie Arms), an
Hall at 121 Mt. Auburn Street (site of the popular Blue Parrot Restaurant) fell in 1987, to be re- placed by an office building, and Harvard allowed The Craigie (also known as Craigie Arms), an apartment building on the corner of University Road, to deteriorate until it was finally repurposed
placed by an office building, and Harvard allowed The Craigie (also known as Craigie Arms), an apartment building on the corner of University Road, to deteriorate until it was finally repurposed as affordable housing in the 1990s. In 2013 the Historical Commission allowed the wood frame for-
Public spaces in this subdistrict consist of sidewalks and the paved plazas created by reconfiguring streets after the construction of the Red Line Extension in 1979-83. An abandoned subway tunnel under Eliot Street creates some awkward grade changes masked by planters, but accessibility
streets after the construction of the Red Line Extension in 1979-83. An abandoned subway tunnel under Eliot Street creates some awkward grade changes masked by planters, but accessibility throughout most of the area is adequate. Deficient sidewalks between Bennett Street and JFK Street
under Eliot Street creates some awkward grade changes masked by planters, but accessibility throughout most of the area is adequate. Deficient sidewalks between Bennett Street and JFK Street are to be rebuilt in 2019. The plaza in front of the Harvard Motor Inn offers an opportunity to im-
throughout most of the area is adequate. Deficient sidewalks between Bennett Street and JFK Street are to be rebuilt in 2019. The plaza in front of the Harvard Motor Inn offers an opportunity to im- prove a public space currently occupied as a bus stop.
of the Harvard Square Garage and the three-story 14 Eliot Street and faces the Post-Modern
site, but the bulk, massing, and ground floor treatment should be carefully controlled so as not to duplicate the overbearing presence of One Brattle Square. Perhaps the most vulnerable site in the subdistrict is the 14,000 sq. foot. property that contains 17
Perhaps the most vulnerable site in the subdistrict is the 14,000 sq. foot. property that contains 17 Story Street (1846) and 127-129 Mt. Auburn Street (1912). The house at 17 Story is a rare Regency Style house that is historically significant as the home late in life of Harriet Jacobs (1813-1897), au-
shares the lot with a 1912 three-decker and suffers from years of deferred maintenance. It shares a C-2 residential zoning district with the west side of Story Street, which would allow much greater density and height than the present buildings.
Subdistrict F: Brattle Square Brattle Street and Brattle Square from the south.
Subdistrict F: Brattle Square Brattle Street and Brattle Square from the south. Brattle Street and Brattle Square from the north
Brattle Street and Brattle Square from the south. Brattle Street and Brattle Square from the north Cambridge GIS, 2014
Brattle Street and Brattle Square from the north Cambridge GIS, 2014 Description
Description This subdistrict includes buildings along Brattle Street from Harvard Square through Brattle Square to Hilliard Street.
This subdistrict includes buildings along Brattle Street from Harvard Square through Brattle Square to Hilliard Street. Brattle Street from Harvard Square to Brattle Square followed the Town Creek around the base of
to Hilliard Street. Brattle Street from Harvard Square to Brattle Square followed the Town Creek around the base of the drumlin on which Newtowne was settled and turned toward Watertown at the Town Spring. It
the drumlin on which Newtowne was settled and turned toward Watertown at the Town Spring. It was the main road west until the turnpike era, when Mount Auburn Street penetrated the village through the former Brattle estate. By 1840, it seemed that a neighborhood of homes would be built
was the main road west until the turnpike era, when Mount Auburn Street penetrated the village through the former Brattle estate. By 1840, it seemed that a neighborhood of homes would be built near the William Brattle mansion (42 Brattle Street), but the residential character of Brattle Square
through the former Brattle estate. By 1840, it seemed that a neighborhood of homes would be built near the William Brattle mansion (42 Brattle Street), but the residential character of Brattle Square Packet Pg. 93
Packet Pg. 93 changed when the Brattle House, a 106-room hotel, was constructed there in 1849. Brattle Square, Palmer Street, and Church Street became the favored locations for stables, blacksmiths, carriage
changed when the Brattle House, a 106-room hotel, was constructed there in 1849. Brattle Square, Palmer Street, and Church Street became the favored locations for stables, blacksmiths, carriage shops, and saloons. The hotel soon failed and became the University Press printing plant. A filling
Palmer Street, and Church Street became the favored locations for stables, blacksmiths, carriage shops, and saloons. The hotel soon failed and became the University Press printing plant. A filling station, a bank, and a department store occupied the site until 1990, when One Brattle Square was
shops, and saloons. The hotel soon failed and became the University Press printing plant. A filling station, a bank, and a department store occupied the site until 1990, when One Brattle Square was constructed.
constructed. After World War I the Harvard Square shopping district ex- panded to include Brattle Square, where a new post office
After World War I the Harvard Square shopping district ex- panded to include Brattle Square, where a new post office was built in 1919 and the Sage family put up a Georgian Re-
was built in 1919 and the Sage family put up a Georgian Re- vival-style market in 1926. George Dow assembled most of the remaining frontage on Brattle Street between Palmer and
vival-style market in 1926. George Dow assembled most of the remaining frontage on Brattle Street between Palmer and Church streets, which was occupied by a collection of store-
the remaining frontage on Brattle Street between Palmer and Church streets, which was occupied by a collection of store- fronts and one substantial building at 11-25 Brattle Street.
Church streets, which was occupied by a collection of store- fronts and one substantial building at 11-25 Brattle Street. By 1941 the Dows had removed the upper stories of 17-25
By 1941 the Dows had removed the upper stories of 17-25 Brattle Street and refaced the entire row with a cast-stone Art Moderne facade. These and other properties owned by
Art Moderne facade. These and other properties owned by the Dow-Stearns Trust, including 1-8 Brattle Street, 14 and Boundaries of the Conservation District (blue)
tle will be razed in 2019 and replaced with a new mixed-use building. Dow-Stearns Block, 17-37 Brattle Street. In Brattle Square proper, the old Hadley building burned in 1972 and was replaced in 1974 with the
Dow-Stearns Block, 17-37 Brattle Street. In Brattle Square proper, the old Hadley building burned in 1972 and was replaced in 1974 with the Modernist New Hadley Building with recessed split-level storefronts, as encouraged by the zoning
In Brattle Square proper, the old Hadley building burned in 1972 and was replaced in 1974 with the Modernist New Hadley Building with recessed split-level storefronts, as encouraged by the zoning at that time. This awkward configuration would benefit from a complete re-working. Across Mt.
at that time. This awkward configuration would benefit from a complete re-working. Across Mt. Auburn Street, the Coolidge Bank Building of 1983 incorporated a recessed ground-floor arcade, but with city encouragement this gloomy feature was filled with storefronts in the 1990s.
New Hadley Building, 28-36 Brattle Street (1974), and the Coolidge Bank Building, 104 Mt. Auburn Street (1983), as remodeled with arcade enclosed. CHC photos 2009.
remodeled with arcade enclosed. CHC photos 2009. One Brattle Square replaced an Art Deco bank and a department
portantly, the multiple storefront One Brattle Square, 1990. CHC photo, 2013. openings required by the Planning Board under its Special Permit review have been almost com-
Packet Pg. 95 West of Brattle Square the stabilizing non-profit ownership of the William
West of Brattle Square the stabilizing non-profit ownership of the William Brattle House and the careful steward-
the construction of an office building on Story Street for The Architects Col- laborative in 1966, six different archi-
tecture firms put up office buildings for their own use on Story Street and Mifflin Place. These created the spine
for their own use on Story Street and Mifflin Place. These created the spine of a through-block pedestrian passage-
sort. The arcade was completed by the construction of a new post office in 2001 and became an im- portant lesson for incrementalism (as opposed to massive redevelopment schemes like the Smith Campus Center and One Brattle Square) and enabling pedestrian connections.
portant lesson for incrementalism (as opposed to massive redevelopment schemes like the Smith Campus Center and One Brattle Square) and enabling pedestrian connections. The subdistrict is bounded in part by the apartment buildings on the west side of Story Street, which
Campus Center and One Brattle Square) and enabling pedestrian connections. The subdistrict is bounded in part by the apartment buildings on the west side of Story Street, which are in a residential zoning district and cannot be redeveloped for offices or retail. The Brattle Street
The subdistrict is bounded in part by the apartment buildings on the west side of Story Street, which are in a residential zoning district and cannot be redeveloped for offices or retail. The Brattle Street frontage of this block is anchored by the historic Blacksmith House of the Cambridge Center for
are in a residential zoning district and cannot be redeveloped for offices or retail. The Brattle Street frontage of this block is anchored by the historic Blacksmith House of the Cambridge Center for Adult Education, the scene of Longfellow’s famous poem and formerly occupied by the Window
Public Spaces In 1972 Brattle Street was narrowed to form a T intersection and to create the plaza and sidewalks in front of the Dow-Stearns block. The historic street pattern is still discernable by the strong visual
Brattle Street looking west from Brattle Square The abrupt introduction of separated bicycle lanes on Brattle Street in 2017 was accomplished with-
Brattle Street looking west from Brattle Square The abrupt introduction of separated bicycle lanes on Brattle Street in 2017 was accomplished with- out public input and no discussion of design alternatives. The flex poles and mid-street parking are
an awkward solution to a serious transportation safety issue and should be revisited. Mifflin Place, a dead-end off Mt. Auburn Street, is accessed
Mifflin Place, a dead-end off Mt. Auburn Street, is accessed by several branches of the
placed well back from the facades and should be recessive and deferential to the original design. Heights should not exceed that of the four-story Estes Building at 13-15 Brattle Street. A mid-block connection to Church Street might complement the subdistrict's public open spaces.
Heights should not exceed that of the four-story Estes Building at 13-15 Brattle Street. A mid-block connection to Church Street might complement the subdistrict's public open spaces. Packet Pg. 97
Dow-Stearns Block, 17-45 ½ Brattle Street; Estes Building at right Cambridge GIS, 2014.
Dow-Stearns Block, 17-45 ½ Brattle Street; Estes Building at right Cambridge GIS, 2014. The north (or west) side of Story Street contains a large stucco apartment building and several small
Cambridge GIS, 2014. The north (or west) side of Story Street contains a large stucco apartment building and several small houses. It is important that these buildings be preserved because the street is a transition point from
houses. It is important that these buildings be preserved because the street is a transition point from the mixed-use character of Harvard Square to the primarily-residential nature of the Half Crown Neighborhood Conservation District. As noted above, the siting of 17 Story Street should be re-
the mixed-use character of Harvard Square to the primarily-residential nature of the Half Crown Neighborhood Conservation District. As noted above, the siting of 17 Story Street should be re- spected.
spected. Story Street, west side Packet Pg. 98
Subdistrict G: Church Street and Palmer Street Packet Pg. 99
Packet Pg. 99 Church and Palmer Streets from the north Church and Palmer Streets from the south
Church and Palmer Streets from the north Church and Palmer Streets from the south Cambridge GIS, 2014
Church and Palmer Streets from the south Cambridge GIS, 2014 Description
Description This subdistrict includes both sides of Church and Palmer streets. Structures along the north side of Church Street from Massachusetts Avenue to the Church Street parking lot and the eastern half of
This subdistrict includes both sides of Church and Palmer streets. Structures along the north side of Church Street from Massachusetts Avenue to the Church Street parking lot and the eastern half of Farwell Place have been protected by the Old Cambridge Historic District since 1964, but since
Church Street from Massachusetts Avenue to the Church Street parking lot and the eastern half of Farwell Place have been protected by the Old Cambridge Historic District since 1964, but since Conservation District. The sites of the greatest historical significance in this small subdistrict are
Conservation District. The sites of the greatest historical significance in this small subdistrict are the First Parish Unitarian Universalist, the Burying Ground, the Torrey Hancock House/Cambridge School of Architecture building (53 Church Street), and the former police station at 31-33 Church
the First Parish Unitarian Universalist, the Burying Ground, the Torrey Hancock House/Cambridge School of Architecture building (53 Church Street), and the former police station at 31-33 Church
Street. In the nineteenth century Palmer Street and Church Street were home to stables, blacksmiths, and carriage shops, and the outlet
home to stables, blacksmiths, and carriage shops, and the outlet to Massachusetts Avenue was little more than an alley. This sec- tion of Church Street was widened in 1926 at the expense of
to Massachusetts Avenue was little more than an alley. This sec- tion of Church Street was widened in 1926 at the expense of College House and 26 Church Street, which both received new
tion of Church Street was widened in 1926 at the expense of College House and 26 Church Street, which both received new north facades.
former police station (1864) has been occupied by a coffee shop and a hair salon. Another carriage factory at 23 Church Street was cut down to one story in 1936 and remodeled with a signifi-
(blue) and the Overlay District (red). Proper- ties on the north side of Church Street and on Farwell Place (except Gutman Library)
ties on the north side of Church Street and on Farwell Place (except Gutman Library) are in the Old Cambridge Historic District.
on Farwell Place (except Gutman Library) are in the Old Cambridge Historic District. the lintel of the Cambridge 1 fire company that once occupied the site.
the lintel of the Cambridge 1 fire company that once occupied the site. The Harvard Square Theater was built in 1925 with its lobby in a storefront in College House fac- ing Massachusetts Avenue. The blank wall of the theater on Church Street was enlivened when the
The Harvard Square Theater was built in 1925 with its lobby in a storefront in College House fac- ing Massachusetts Avenue. The blank wall of the theater on Church Street was enlivened when the entrance was moved there in 1982, but activity on the street has suffered since the theater closed in
Public Spaces In the early 1960s a proposal to close Palmer Street was defeated by community opposition, and the street was paved with granite blocks and curbstones and brick sidewalks in 1964-67. The recessed
improvement added interest to the narrow side street, but Palmer remains a work in progress – a useful pedestrian cut-through with little to interest passersby. Sidewalks on the south side of Church Street were widened in the early 2000s but are still quite narrow on the north side.
Private Sites The Church Street parking lot is an obvious potential development site. Abutting the parking lot on the west is the 1827 Torrey Hancock house. The Cambridge School of Architecture and Landscape
The Church Street parking lot is an obvious potential development site. Abutting the parking lot on the west is the 1827 Torrey Hancock house. The Cambridge School of Architecture and Landscape Architecture addition to the Hancock house is an important site in American women's history; both
setbacks of the historic structures on either side of the lot. Special consideration should be given to the site’s relationship to the Old Burying Ground and the smaller-scale residences on Farwell Place. Packet Pg. 100
The Church Street parking lot, the Torrey-Hancock house (1827), and the Cambridge School of Architecture (1928) In contrast to most of Harvard Square, the three commercial buildings on the north side of Church
The Church Street parking lot, the Torrey-Hancock house (1827), and the Cambridge School of Architecture (1928) In contrast to most of Harvard Square, the three commercial buildings on the north side of Church Street are in a BA (business) zoning district, with a 1.0 FAR and a 35’ height limit (or 1.75/85’ for
the ground floor and offices above. The proposal was generally seen as a positive development for Church Street and the Square as a whole. The Commission did not object to the advanced design but continued the hearing until the proponent could fabricate a sample of the façade to demonstrate
the lighting concept. The Harvard Square Theater site is also exposed to Palmer Street. While the property has a compli- cated relationship with its abutters, it offers the opportunity to enliven its frontage there. The re-
out to the building façade, affording the Coop more floor space and a much better exposure to pe- destrians. Similar improvements were successfully accomplished at 9 Brattle Street (on the corner of Palmer) and 104 Mt. Auburn Street (see photo above).
destrians. Similar improvements were successfully accomplished at 9 Brattle Street (on the corner of Palmer) and 104 Mt. Auburn Street (see photo above). Packet Pg. 102
March 2, 2017 Minutes of the Cambridge Historical Commission March 2, 2017 - 795 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge City Hall - 6:00 P.M.
Minutes of the Cambridge Historical Commission March 2, 2017 - 795 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge City Hall - 6:00 P.M. Members present:
mission itself could initiate such as study on its own initiative. Suzanne Blier of 5 Fuller Place presented on behalf of the petitioners. She indicated that af- ter the 1-3 Brattle Street application was heard by the Commission some members of the public
Suzanne Blier of 5 Fuller Place presented on behalf of the petitioners. She indicated that af- ter the 1-3 Brattle Street application was heard by the Commission some members of the public were still not satisfied that the door should be moved to face the center of the square. They decided
ple. Abra Berkowitz of 253½ Broadway said it was worth having a study committee to have a full discussion of the options for the district. If the Commission would engage the petitioners, the
preservation book Keeping Time. She called for greater transparency. Stores were closing all the Pebble Gifford of 15 Hilliard Street said she had participated in the original district studies for Harvard Square. The existing district order allowed for too much leeway, and it should be tight-
Pebble Gifford of 15 Hilliard Street said she had participated in the original district studies for Harvard Square. The existing district order allowed for too much leeway, and it should be tight- ened up to better protect and preserve buildings. She said the Commissioners were the custodians of
the criteria for appropriateness, not their own likes and dislikes. She cited a roof deck as an exam- Carole Perrault of 9 Dana Street spoke in favor of having a study process. Recent efforts for landmark studies proved the need for such a study. She cited recent projects as reason for wanting
landmark studies proved the need for such a study. She cited recent projects as reason for wanting change including the Smith Campus Center, Kennedy School, the Science Center Plaza, 16-18 Eliot Street, Wordsworth building storefronts and signs, Abbot building “facadism,” the Corcoran build-
change including the Smith Campus Center, Kennedy School, the Science Center Plaza, 16-18 Eliot Street, Wordsworth building storefronts and signs, Abbot building “facadism,” the Corcoran build- ing demolition, and the undetermined future of the Harvard Square Theatre. She said the petitioners
used elsewhere. There was no harm to having a study and it could result in improvements. Marilee Meyer of 10 Dana Street pointed to the fact that storefronts could be changed as of right in the district as something that she would like to see changed.
right in the district as something that she would like to see changed. Michael Brandon of 27 Seven Pines Avenue spoke in favor of having a study. A tiered sys- tem of significance might be a good idea. There was a lot of development pressure on Harvard
Michael Brandon of 27 Seven Pines Avenue spoke in favor of having a study. A tiered sys- tem of significance might be a good idea. There was a lot of development pressure on Harvard Square. The Commission was one of the first entities to use the NCD model at the municipal level.
I am hereby requesting an appropriation of $15,000,000 from Free Cash to the Affordable Housing Trust to assist in preserving affordability of units at Fresh Pond Apartments at 362 and 364 Rindge Avenue. Under terms of the restrictions in place here, affordability of the 504 units is set to expire on December
That the City Council appropriate $15,000,000 from Free Cash to the Affordable Housing Trust to assist in preserving affordability of units at Fresh Pond Apartments located at 362 and 364 Rindge Avenue.
Housing Trust to assist in preserving affordability of units at Fresh Pond Apartments located at 362 and 364 Rindge Avenue. ORDERED:
favorable interest rate, which means property tax savings to our taxpayers. This is especially important as we embark on funding for our third school project (Tobin Montessori & Vassal Lane Upper Schools) with an estimated cost of $250 million. Overall, including the Tobin Montessori & Vassal Lane Upper Schools
we embark on funding for our third school project (Tobin Montessori & Vassal Lane Upper Schools) with an estimated cost of $250 million. Overall, including the Tobin Montessori & Vassal Lane Upper Schools project, the City is projected to spend a total of $505 million for the three school projects. These projects
competitive sale will take place on March 5, 2020. Capital projects funded in this bond issuance include the King Open/Cambridge Street Upper School and Community Complex, Tobin Montessori & Vassal Lane Upper Schools design, sewer reconstruction,
Capital projects funded in this bond issuance include the King Open/Cambridge Street Upper School and Community Complex, Tobin Montessori & Vassal Lane Upper Schools design, sewer reconstruction, Packet Pg. 138
To the Honorable, the City Council: I am pleased to provide you with an update on the proposed Eversource substation on Fulkerson Street. Following months of discussions initiated by the City, Eversource, Boston Properties, and Alexandria
As you will see in the attached report from Mr. Reardon, “the proposed relocation site is on a portion of Boston Properties Blue Garage, which runs between Binney Street and Broadway, and will need to be completely demolished for construction of the substation and replacement parking. This process will be
I want to thank the City Council for their leadership on this issue over the past months as the private parties involved investigated all available options to relocate the proposed substation from Fulkerson Street. Finally, I want to thank the residents of East Cambridge and Wellington-Harrington, especially the
parties involved investigated all available options to relocate the proposed substation from Fulkerson Street. Finally, I want to thank the residents of East Cambridge and Wellington-Harrington, especially the stakeholder group that I have been meeting with, for their patience, input, trust, and advocacy.
The fact that the City has been able to facilitate private parties reaching an agreement to relocate the substation from Fulkerson Street into the MXD district is a significant achievement. I want to express my sincere thanks for the patience and cooperation demonstrated by all parties involved in this process.
Cambridge/ MA 02139 RE: 135 Fulkerson Street Site Dear City Manager DePasquale/
the impact on the residential neighborhood and the public school students who would have abutted the original site at 135 Fulkerson Street site.
• The proposed relocation site is on a portion of Boston Properties Blue Garage/ which runs between Binney Street and Broadway/ and will need to be completely demolished for
Telephone: 617-548-2075 ~ E-mail: zpreardonco2ryany@gmai2.coja Attachment: Eversource substation update attachments 030220 (CMA 2020 #56 : Update on Eversource substation on Fulkerson Street) ^ (P. pardon Company
• Provided the necessary approval are granted Eversource would sell the existing Fulkerson Street site to Alexandria Properties with funds being used to purchase the Boston
Letter to the City Council, Alexandria Properties will convey the Fulkerson Street parcel to the City after it is acquired from Eversource.
the relocation. • Binney Street (Pork Chop) Park will not be impacted as part of If you have any questions or require additional information
Telephone: 617-548-2075 - E-iDa.il: rpreardoncoiqpany@gmaiZ.com Attachment: Eversource substation update attachments 030220 (CMA 2020 #56 : Update on Eversource substation on Fulkerson Street) P 617-492-6800 | F 617-492-6804
P 617-492-6800 | F 617-492-6804 ^ CAMBRIDGE 2S5 Main Street I 8th Floor | Cambridge. MA 02U2 ^ AUTHORITY cambrldgeredevelopmerrt.org
Boston Properties (BXP) and Eversource to understand alternative site options for the Eversource substation originally planned for Fulkerson Street. The technical teams have been working diligently to test the feasibility of an alternative site that utilizes the Blue Parking Garage parcel between Binney
substation originally planned for Fulkerson Street. The technical teams have been working diligently to test the feasibility of an alternative site that utilizes the Blue Parking Garage parcel between Binney Street and Broadway in the Kendali Square Urban Renewal Pian (KSURP). The CRA is supportive of
test the feasibility of an alternative site that utilizes the Blue Parking Garage parcel between Binney Street and Broadway in the Kendali Square Urban Renewal Pian (KSURP). The CRA is supportive of the effort to relocate the substation if, and only if it can be designed in a manner that has minimal
Jeff Mullan, Foley Hoag Attachment: Eversource substation update attachments 030220 (CMA 2020 #56 : Update on Eversource substation on Fulkerson Street) 800 Boylston Street
exploring various solutions to meet this demand and, En 2016, secured a parcel of land at 135 Fulkerson Street in Cambridge as a potential site for a new substation. Based on feedback from the city and the community, approximately eight months ago, Eversource began to engage property
Square MXD District, on which the proposed Eversource substation could potentially be located. The parcel is currently the site of a structured parking facility between Broadway and Binney Street known as the "Blue Garage." We can also report that thus far, while our joint feasibility analysis is ongoing,
power lines in all permitting proceedings including in local and state forums; Attachment: Eversource substation update attachments 030220 (CMA 2020 #56 : Update on Eversource substation on Fulkerson Street) • the City recognizes the potential need for an interim measure to maintain reliable service in
together to identify a potential alternative location for the Eversource substation currently planned to be located at Fulkerson Street. Eversource has agreed to pause engineering work on the Fulkerson Street location and will continue to do so provided that there is community support for the alternative
ec: David Provost, Boston Properties Thomas Evans, Cambridge Redevelopment Authority Attachment: Eversource substation update attachments 030220 (CMA 2020 #56 : Update on Eversource substation on Fulkerson Street)
Thomas Evans, Cambridge Redevelopment Authority Attachment: Eversource substation update attachments 030220 (CMA 2020 #56 : Update on Eversource substation on Fulkerson Street) BOSTON PROPERTIES LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
the MXD District to which the proposed Eversource substation could potentially be relocated from the 135 Fulkerson Street site in Cambridge. The parcel is currently the site of a structured parking facility between Broadway and Binney Street known as the "Blue Garage," and has
from the 135 Fulkerson Street site in Cambridge. The parcel is currently the site of a structured parking facility between Broadway and Binney Street known as the "Blue Garage," and has already been slated for redevelopment as part of a master planning process that has taken place
the future construction of two commercial buildings of approximately 400,000 square feet each Attachment: Eversource substation update attachments 030220 (CMA 2020 #56 : Update on Eversource substation on Fulkerson Street) and to facilitate the phased development of the Eversource project and the Boston Properties
Blue Garage and during the construction period of the relocated substation, and for their commitment to purchase the Eversource Fulkerson Street parcel to facilitate the relocation Although this project is still in its preliminary stages, we are pleased to have been able to
Although this project is still in its preliminary stages, we are pleased to have been able to offer our site as a proposed alternative to Fulkerson Street and we look forward to working with all of the stakeholders to continue to advance this plan.
Madeleine Timin, Esq. Attachment: Eversource substation update attachments 030220 (CMA 2020 #56 : Update on Eversource substation on Fulkerson Street)
Overlay provided the structure that contains the use has a main entrance on Massachusetts Avenue, Mt. Auburn Street, Arrow Street or Bow Street. For all other lots, the Planning Board may allow by special permit the retail use of a lot or
within the Overlay provided the structure that contains the use has a main entrance on Massachusetts Avenue, Mt. Auburn Street, Harvard Street Arrow Street or Bow Street. For all other lots, the Planning Board may allow by
entrance on Massachusetts Avenue, Mt. Auburn Street, Harvard Street Arrow Street or Bow Street. For all other lots, the Planning Board may allow by special permit the retail use of a lot or structure all or partially within the
Parcel 1. A certain parcel of land situated in the City of Cambridge, County of Middlesex and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts more particularly described as follows: Beginning at a point at the intersection of the westerly sideline of Fulkerson Street and the northeasterly sideline of Binney Street;
Commonwealth of Massachusetts more particularly described as follows: Beginning at a point at the intersection of the westerly sideline of Fulkerson Street and the northeasterly sideline of Binney Street; thence running N 56°29'27" W, by said Binney Street, a distance of 226.55 feet to a point; thence turning
intersection of the westerly sideline of Fulkerson Street and the northeasterly sideline of Binney Street; thence running N 56°29'27" W, by said Binney Street, a distance of 226.55 feet to a point; thence turning and running N 57°11'37" W, by said Binney Street, a distance of 51.81 feet to a point; thence turning and
thence running N 56°29'27" W, by said Binney Street, a distance of 226.55 feet to a point; thence turning and running N 57°11'37" W, by said Binney Street, a distance of 51.81 feet to a point; thence turning and running N 10°45'15" E, by land now or formerly of Massachusetts Department of Transportation, a
and running N 57°11'37" W, by said Binney Street, a distance of 51.81 feet to a point; thence turning and running N 10°45'15" E, by land now or formerly of Massachusetts Department of Transportation, a distance of 1014.59 feet to a point; thence turning and running S 80°27'41" E, by land now or formerly of
tangency; thence running by a curve to the left, having a radius of 301.06 feet, a chord bearing of S by land now or formerly of NSTAR Electric Company to a point on said Fulkerson Street; thence running S 09°32'20" W, by said Fulkerson Street, a distance of 546.29 feet to the point of beginning; said parcel of
by land now or formerly of NSTAR Electric Company to a point on said Fulkerson Street; thence running S 09°32'20" W, by said Fulkerson Street, a distance of 546.29 feet to the point of beginning; said parcel of land containing an area of 191,506 square feet or 4.39 acres; and
Parcel 2. A certain parcel of land situated in the City of Cambridge, County of Middlesex and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts more particularly described as follows: commencing at a point at the intersection of the westerly sideline of Fulkerson Street and the northeasterly sideline of Binney Street;
Commonwealth of Massachusetts more particularly described as follows: commencing at a point at the intersection of the westerly sideline of Fulkerson Street and the northeasterly sideline of Binney Street; thence running N 56°29'27" W, by said Binney Street, a distance of 226.55 feet to a point; thence turning
intersection of the westerly sideline of Fulkerson Street and the northeasterly sideline of Binney Street; thence running N 56°29'27" W, by said Binney Street, a distance of 226.55 feet to a point; thence turning and running N 57°11'37" W, by said Binney Street, a distance of 90.66 feet to the point of beginning;
thence running N 56°29'27" W, by said Binney Street, a distance of 226.55 feet to a point; thence turning and running N 57°11'37" W, by said Binney Street, a distance of 90.66 feet to the point of beginning; thence running N 57°11'37" W, by said Binney Street, a distance of 15.11 feet to a point; thence turning
and running N 57°11'37" W, by said Binney Street, a distance of 90.66 feet to the point of beginning; thence running N 57°11'37" W, by said Binney Street, a distance of 15.11 feet to a point; thence turning and running N 10°45'15" E, by land now or formerly of ARE-MA Region No. 58, LLC, a distance of
Parcel 4. A certain parcel of land situated in the City of Cambridge, County of Middlesex and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts more particularly described as follows: beginning at a point on the southerly sideline of Cambridge Street, S 80°29'15" E a distance of 130.97 feet from the easterly sideline
Commonwealth of Massachusetts more particularly described as follows: beginning at a point on the southerly sideline of Cambridge Street, S 80°29'15" E a distance of 130.97 feet from the easterly sideline of Cardinal Medeiros Avenue; thence running S 80°29'15" E, by said Cambridge Street, a distance of 6.19
southerly sideline of Cambridge Street, S 80°29'15" E a distance of 130.97 feet from the easterly sideline of Cardinal Medeiros Avenue; thence running S 80°29'15" E, by said Cambridge Street, a distance of 6.19 feet to a point; thence turning and running S 11°03'38" W, by land now or formerly of Massachusetts
of Cardinal Medeiros Avenue; thence running S 80°29'15" E, by said Cambridge Street, a distance of 6.19 feet to a point; thence turning and running S 11°03'38" W, by land now or formerly of Massachusetts Department of Transportation, a distance of 264.00 feet to a point; thence running along a curve to the
Parcel 5. A certain parcel of land situated in the City of Cambridge, County of Middlesex and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts more particularly described as follows: beginning at a point on the southerly sideline of Cambridge Street, S 80°29'15" E a distance of 78.39 feet from the easterly sideline
Commonwealth of Massachusetts more particularly described as follows: beginning at a point on the southerly sideline of Cambridge Street, S 80°29'15" E a distance of 78.39 feet from the easterly sideline of Cardinal Medeiros Avenue; thence turning and running S 80°29'15" E, by said Cambridge Street, a
southerly sideline of Cambridge Street, S 80°29'15" E a distance of 78.39 feet from the easterly sideline of Cardinal Medeiros Avenue; thence turning and running S 80°29'15" E, by said Cambridge Street, a distance of 52.58 feet to a point; thence turning and running S 10°46'42" W, by Parcel 4 herein described,
development of a public pathway along the Grand Junction railroad right-of-way in connection with high quality development consistent with development along the Binney Street corridor. The October 2001 East Cambridge Planning Study identified the Grand Junction corridor as a means to
quality development consistent with development along the Binney Street corridor. The October 2001 East Cambridge Planning Study identified the Grand Junction corridor as a means to provide a significant transportation and recreational resource and enhance non-auto mobility in the City.
access to certain land in the Grand Junction Pathway Overlay District by incenting development consistent with development along the Binney Street corridor. A project meeting the requirements of this Section will provide open space, recreational opportunities, a corridor for non-auto traffic in the City, as
conveyance to the City, or a designee thereof, by fee or easement, of interests in certain land as described herein for the development of the Grand Junction pathway between Binney Street and Cambridge Street. In connection with a Special Permit(s) granted pursuant to Section 20.1000, conveyance to the City, or its
the land between the east boundary of Tax Parcel 37-126 and the west boundary of Tax Parcel 37-88, continuing approximately fifty (50) feet to Cambridge Street, comprising a total of approximately 7,020 square feet; and
square feet; and bordering the Grand Junction railroad right-of-way beginning at Binney Street and continuing approximately 511 feet to the south boundary of Tax Parcel 33-111 and Tax Parcel 33-111, comprising a
“Development Land” within the Grand Junction Pathway Overlay District consists of Tax Parcel 31-20 [known as 303 and 345 Binney Street], comprising a total of approximately 191,506 square feet (“Development Land Lot Area”).
[known as 303 and 345 Binney Street], comprising a total of approximately 191,506 square feet (“Development Land Lot Area”). The land described in subparagraphs (a)-(c) is hereby defined as “Grand Junction Land.”
Development Land located in the Residence C-1 District abutting the railroad right-of-way. within the Grand Junction Pathway Overlay District, the Development Land is divided into three zones: the Binney Street Zone, the Transition Zone and the Base Zoning Zone. The maximum height of any
within the Grand Junction Pathway Overlay District, the Development Land is divided into three zones: the Binney Street Zone, the Transition Zone and the Base Zoning Zone. The maximum height of any building in the Binney Street Zone shall be 90 feet. The maximum height of any building in the
the Binney Street Zone, the Transition Zone and the Base Zoning Zone. The maximum height of any building in the Binney Street Zone shall be 90 feet. The maximum height of any building in the Transition Zone shall be 60 feet. The maximum height of any building in the Base Zoning Zone shall be
Transition Zone shall be 60 feet. The maximum height of any building in the Base Zoning Zone shall be governed by base zoning. Notwithstanding Section 5.23 of the Cambridge Zoning Ordinance, the height of any Roof Top Mechanical Penthouse in the Binney Street Zone of the Grand Junction Pathway Overlay
governed by base zoning. Notwithstanding Section 5.23 of the Cambridge Zoning Ordinance, the height of any Roof Top Mechanical Penthouse in the Binney Street Zone of the Grand Junction Pathway Overlay District shall be limited to twenty-five (25) feet and the height of any Roof Top Mechanical Penthouse in
By creating a new overlay zoning district entitled Grand Junction Pathway Overlay District in the area of the existing Grand Junction Railroad Right of Way between Cambridge Street and Binney Street, and to amend Article 20.000 of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Cambridge by creating a Section 20.1000
the existing Grand Junction Railroad Right of Way between Cambridge Street and Binney Street, and to amend Article 20.000 of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Cambridge by creating a Section 20.1000 Grand Junction Pathway Overlay District.
development of a public pathway along the Grand Junction railroad right-of-way in connection with high quality development consistent with development along the Binney Street corridor. The provisions of Section 20.1000, which would be subject to special permit approval by the Planning
Junction rail corridor to be used for a public pathway, and would allow development on other identified parcels of land referred to as 303 and 345 Binney Street for uses otherwise allowed in the base Industry A-1 district, with a maximum building height of 105 feet along Binney Street and 60 feet in the
parcels of land referred to as 303 and 345 Binney Street for uses otherwise allowed in the base Industry A-1 district, with a maximum building height of 105 feet along Binney Street and 60 feet in the Transition Zone, a maximum floor area ratio of 2.5 multiplied by the area of the industrially zoned
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 53 Bow Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material specified by the
November 2019 Photo of existing conditions curb cut on Linden Street located between two Harvard University buildings, and across from another Harvard University building
Photo of existing conditions curb cut on Linden Street located between two Harvard University buildings, and across from another Harvard University building Proposed to be shifted northwards to accommodate an accessible path of travel into the courtyard
grant a permit to Community Development for one temporary banner across JFK and Mount Auburn Streets APP-2
To the honorable, the City Council of the City of Cambridge, the undersigned respectfully request Community Development Department - Cambridge Energy Alliance located at 344 Broadway Be granted permission for a temporary banner hung across the public way located at:
Be granted permission for a temporary banner hung across the public way located at: JFK at Mount Auburn Street from 03-23-2020 through 03-30-2020 Massachusetts Avenue in front of City Hall from 03-16-2020 through 03-23-2020
JFK at Mount Auburn Street from 03-23-2020 through 03-30-2020 Massachusetts Avenue in front of City Hall from 03-16-2020 through 03-23-2020 Description: Sign up for 100% renewable electricity from the City of Cambridge's Community Electricity Program
Garage. Any construction or redevelopment on the Garage Parcel will follow the current height of the parking garage that has a maximum total height along Binney Street and is reduced in tiers north towards Linden Park. Any future construction or redevelopment of
height of the parking garage that has a maximum total height along Binney Street and is reduced in tiers north towards Linden Park. Any future construction or redevelopment of the Garage Parcel will have the same set back from Linden Park as the current Kendall
Any construction or redevelopment on the Garage Parcel will follow the current height of the parking garage that has a maximum total height along Binney Street and is reduced in tiers north towards Linden Park. Any future construction or redevelopment of the Garage
the parking garage that has a maximum total height along Binney Street and is reduced in tiers north towards Linden Park. Any future construction or redevelopment of the Garage Parcel will have the same set back from Linden Park as the current Kendall Square
for members of the City Council and School Committee for Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 5:30 p.m. in the Henrietta Attles Meeting Room at the Cambridge Rindge and Latin School, 459 Broadway, to follow up on discussions from the February 11, 2020 City
School, 459 Broadway, to follow up on discussions from the February 11, 2020 City Council and School Committee Roundtable Meeting regarding the school budget for Fiscal Year 2021.
Preserving affordability at Fresh Pond Apartments to the Honorable, the City It is exciting to be moving forward with the vital preservation work to retain the affordability of Fresh Pond Apartments, located at 362-364 Rindge Avenue through the appropriation of $15,000,000 from
It is exciting to be moving forward with the vital preservation work to retain the affordability of Fresh Pond Apartments, located at 362-364 Rindge Avenue through the appropriation of $15,000,000 from Free Cash to the Affordable Housing Trust. The 504 apartments, known to those living there (and those
