Board will have a continued special permit hearing for 727 Mass Ave, and a special permit amendment for 2 James Way. And the following meeting will be December 22, and
construct a residential addition of 46 units to the existing commercial building at 600 Massachusetts Avenue, pursuant to Section 19.20, Project Review Special Permit, Section 20.300
Section 19.20, Project Review Special Permit, Section 20.300 Central Square Overlay District and Article 2 definition of Gross Floor Area.
as you mentioned, the applicant proposes to demolish a portion of the existing building a 600 Massachusetts Avenue in order to construct a new building containing 46
for a total of 93,263 square feet. The site, as you mentioned, is in the Central Square Overlay District, which was most recently amended in
applicable criteria. Many of these special permits are contained in the zoning for Central Square, and generally allow increased development potential on the lot after
the Board needs to make a finding that the development meets the planning goals for Central Square. Additionally, this proposal just exceeds the
space. I will finish by noting that the Central Square Advisory Committee reviewed the proposal at their meeting on
are in support of the project, though they expressed some concern about the viability of the Green Street commercial And that's it for me. Staff are available to
Crane. I'm the attorney for the applicant in this particular instance. My office is located at 104 Mount Auburn Street in Cambridge.
Next to Chipotle is the vacant Sleepy Mattress site, and then on the Green Street side it should be noted that there is a four-story brick structure, which has been
stories; you can't really see it from Mass Avenue, it's much more presentable from Green Street. The other tenant in the building presently is the
they would be relocated from where they presently are, which is on Green Street, behind the vacant Sleepy Mattress spot into the renovated Bakery Tower. And then when the building
would then relocate to the basement of the new building. As noted, we appeared before the Central Square Advisory Committee last Thursday, and there was unanimous
And the overall length is about 190. So it goes right through the block all the way from Mass Ave to Green Street, and then is actually part of our design organization
itself at about 72 feet. The Franklin Street tower is, you know, well over the 70.2 that’s based on that zoning method for calculating
be able to build our project, because the only way you get to the site is through Green Street. But we will recreate it and modify it a little bit. We've been in discussions with
the left, we have a bit of a narrower façade. We have a -- and on the back side of Green Street, we have a much wider façade.
And then going through the building on the right- hand side, fronting on Green Street, is another commercial space of about the same size. And both of them are in the
even some commercial users to be able to go all the way from Mass Ave through to Green Street. Going to Green Street takes you to a forecourt that
Mass Ave through to Green Street. Going to Green Street takes you to a forecourt that opens up the space between the Bakery building, which is --
would see on Mass Ave that connects -- the left-hand side which is Mass Ave and Green Street side on the right. This is showing -- you know, kind of a very, all
cut out, and finished with some nice materials. And then the back side of the building on Green Street, we changed the materials slightly, but it's still the
You can see how the cornice wraps around the front, and how the front is stepped back slightly on Green Street from that cornice façade. And then we do the same thing as
opportunity to really get some interesting activity at street level on Green Street so it's not just a utilitarian service area.
you. And this is the back side of Green Street -- similar kind of materials, just different colors. And of
Can we go on to the next? Next? This is a 3D model from Green Street standing back probably just about where the courtyard for the senior
from Patrick W. Barrett and Kenneth S. Barron in addition to the report from the Central Square Advisory Committee. Additional written communications received after 5:00 p.m.
CATHERINE PRESTON CONNOLLY: Yes. PETER QUINN: -- 259 Elm Street, Somerville Mass. CATHERINE PRESTON CONNOLLY: Thank you. All right.
CAROL O'HARE: My name is Carol O'Hare, 172 Magazine Street. Can you hear me?? JEFF ROBERTS: Yes, Carol, thank you. We're glad
NIKOLAS BOWIE: Hi. I've personally always thought that the buildings in Central Square are all too short. Like, it's along a major artery, it's right by the T.
right on the corner. And then across the street from that with the number on it is the Central Square building. The donut-shaped building is the mixed-use residential building.
PETER QUINN: That's the back side -- what I refer to as the back side. It's the Green Street side. And you can see opening that up, we're trying to get a lot of windows
that lift and brought out at the assigned time to the street -- Green Street. HUGH RUSSELL: Then down the ramp?
condition? For example, they thought that it was reasonable to request $250,000 to help repair the Green Street Garage, since there will be no parking here.
this time. stairway to the Central Square subway station on Mass Avenue. CORINNE ESPINOZA: I'd like to ask that of the
discharging the stormwater instead of Mass Ave, route the stormwater out to Green Street, which is possible. It's easy to get the piping done or -- or not easy, but we're
project. The way it's designed, well -- you know, looking back, Central Square has historically been the urban core of the city of Cambridge.
No, that's never going to be developed again. It's always going to be a lost tooth in the streetscape of Central Square.
market, in this economy, and with our approach to urban design and with our vision of what Central Square should be as the urban core, I think that this entire site should be
I just don't think that this is consistent with my vision of what Central Square could be and should be. CATHERINE PRESTON CONNOLLY: Okay. Thanks, Steve.
expression of the street front, but there is something that I don't like. And I read the report of the Central Square Advisory Committee, who had seen an earlier version. And
different colors, that works well. So I'm concerned that the -- both the Green Street retail and Mass Avenue retail don't have doors directly out
retail and Mass Avenue retail don't have doors directly out onto the street. Now, I guess on Green Street it's a problem because the floor level is higher -- presumably because of
wide openings in brick without steel. Yes, I know the steel's there, but I think if you've got piers on the Green Street side, there should be piers on the pedestrian passage
dollars of rent per unit; using a studio apartment as an example, a market-rate studio apartment in Central Square goes for about $1800 to $2000 a month right now. An owner
proceeded in good faith and some thinking by a lot of good people in the Central Square planning process; have come up with what they think is the correct approach on parking.
housing. And I think that's also consistent with what the planning process is in the Central Square groups that have come before us are advising this Board of as well, that we
The western storefront approach, as it was described, which is the great tradition in Central Square of the walls that face the public thoroughfare, which is our
the walls that face the public thoroughfare, which is our Main Street -- Mass Ave -- are always different from the sides. And that's a wonderful thing. It's a deference to a
Mass Ave elevation is consistent with the tradition of making strong civic gestures to our Main Street. So I would encourage more looking at that. A very complicated problem;
here. I think back to the 10 Essex Street Project that we permitted not that long ago, or maybe it was that long ago.
There are other buildings that are not quite as contemporary in Central Square, but, you know, make the case and I think that would be certainly easier for this Board
would be a tremendous community benefit, as would some contribution to the continued maintenance of Green Street Garage. They're not the only things that could be done, but,
addition, we will need the city to cooperate in causing the pedestrian easements that were granted to 160 Cambridge Park Drive as part of its approvals to actually be converted into
Drive as part of its approvals to actually be converted into real easements that cross between the ramps and Cambridge Park Drive.
real easements that cross between the ramps and Cambridge Park Drive. Now, the fundamental point that we want to express
we contemplate doing a central parking garage that is primarily a garage, but that is fronted on Mooney Street by a genuine residential development, probably with the type of
evening, everyone and Madam Chair. And my name is John Chun, from 48 Loomis Street. So we as a neighborhood committee, we got together on a few
Number 6, the memo doesn't call out for traffic impact studies for the surrounding areas, such as Concord Avenue and cross streets. And we believe it should be
area developed. But our concern really is it's going to end up like Fawcett Street or the Triangle, and we're interested in a livable neighborhood for residents and we're interested
SUSAN AGGER: Hi. My name is Susan Agger. I live at 1 Loomis Street in the Highlands, and I'll continue with this list that Lizzie was starting from, so Number 5,
JONATHAN AGGER: Yes. This is Jonathan Agger, 1 Loomis Street. So I -- just continuing the same theme, we're really looking for a focus and commitment on amenities that
identify yourself, please? ANN TENNIS: Hi. This is Ann Tennis at 71 Griswold Street. I would like to restate what my peers have said --
presented in front of you guys or spoke in front of you guys about a year ago. I live at 199 North Harvard Street in Boston, and how I relate to this is our family owns a half
MIKE NAKAGAWA: Hello, this is Mike Nakagawa, 51 Madison Avenue, North Cambridge, the other side of the Alewife area, on the other side of the T station. You can
Madison Avenue, North Cambridge, the other side of the Alewife area, on the other side of the T station. You can year me, I presume?
