Ordinary Maintenance account which will be used for expenses associated with the Starlight Square temporary place-keeping intervention in Municipal Parking Lot 5 in Central Square. CMA 2020 #182
4. An application was received from David Biancaville, requesting permission for a curb cut at the premises numbered 10 Acorn Park Drive; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works. No
III. APPLICATIONS AND PETITIONS projecting sign at the premises numbered 599 Massachusetts Avenue approval has been received from Inspectional Services, Department of Public Works, Community Development Department and proof
Councillor Carlone projecting sign at the premises numbered 212 Hampshire Street approval has been received from Inspectional Services, Department of Public Works, Community Development Department and
Sep 14, 2020 17. A communication was received from Callie Chapman, 550 Massachusetts Avenue, regarding Disaster Relief Fund.
Central Square. COM 565 #2020
Sep 14, 2020 41. A communication was received from Central Square Theater: Catherine Carr Kelly, Executive Director, regarding creating and amend policy which will help artists and cultural organizations
Sep 14, 2020 51. A communication was received from Jae Storozum, 16 Whittier Street, regarding the City Manager's contract.
Transportation Department to examine what traffic calming measures may be implemented for these sections of Walden Street POR 2020 #195
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
(Calendar Item #5) from 10/7/2019 Central Square Library branch. Vice Mayor Mallon, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (Calendar Item #8)
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Report on the potential for implementing sufficient traffic-calming solutions on Upton Street. Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (O-7) from 1/27/2020
20-25. Report on changing the name of the bus stop from “Massachusetts Avenue at Churchill Avenue” to “Matignon High School at Churchill Avenue”. Councillor Toomey (O-5) from 6/1/2020
neighborhoods, including the Port (Harvard and Windsor), the Coast (Putnam and Magazine), Brattle Street and North Cambridge (Rindge and Massachusetts Ave.). Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor Simmons, Councillor Nolan, Vice Mayor Mallon
Sep 14, 2020 20-37. Report on considering formally renaming the Central Square Library in honor of Maria Baldwin and Rep. John Lewis, with the building being known as “The Maria
20-37. Report on considering formally renaming the Central Square Library in honor of Maria Baldwin and Rep. John Lewis, with the building being known as “The Maria Baldwin and Rep. John Lewis Library and Center for African American/Black
neighboring community and the many individuals who commute through the area via the Alewife Red Line, the Minuteman Bikeway, Rindge Avenue and Alewife Brook Parkway.
Funds will be used for expenses associated with the Starlight Square temporary place-keeping intervention in Municipal Parking Lot 5 in Central Square. Starlight Square is a temporary intervention created by the Central Square Business Improvement District, and builds capacity within the Central
intervention in Municipal Parking Lot 5 in Central Square. Starlight Square is a temporary intervention created by the Central Square Business Improvement District, and builds capacity within the Central Square community for outdoor performance, commerce, learning, dining, and creating a safe space for the
alongside Jerry’s Pond and playing fields. In addition, an urban forest reforestation pilot project has been established in Linear Park near the Harvey Street crossing.
forest reforestation pilot project has been established in Linear Park near the Harvey Street crossing. Installed four Big Belly compactors around Comeau Field.
• • Re-striped crosswalks on Rindge Avenue near the McCrehan Pool to increase visibility.
• DCR agreed to remove a portion of the post fence between the edge of Jerry’s Pond and Alewife Brook Parkway along Rindge Avenue. This will provide easier access and facilitate maintenance to this area. The City has indicated to DCR its
• DCR did not support the City’s request to de-pave and plant sections of the concrete median at the intersection of Rindge Avenue and Alewife Brook Parkway, due to concerns with sight lines.
Current Developments Frost Terrace Frost Terrace will create 40 affordable rental units in the heart of Porter Square. The development will preserve
Frost Terrace Frost Terrace will create 40 affordable rental units in the heart of Porter Square. The development will preserve three existing houses on the site, including the full restoration of the historic building at 1791 Mass. Ave., as well
The building provides affordable office space in the heart of Central Square, and has had a 55-year long tenure as a center for social services. While the building remains a bustling site for
Preservation Grants Affordable Housing Restorations, 7-9 Salem Street (1853) and 205-207 Green Street (1877). Further funding for Affordable Housing Preservation Grants and Institutional Preservation Grants will support
Packet Pg. 144 !=-(Finch Cambridge98 affordable rental unitsCompleted 2020Frost Terrace40 affordable rental unitsUnder constructionSquirrelwood23 affordable rental unitsUnder constructionFresh Pond Apartments504 affordable unitsExpiring use restrictionsto be preserved2072 Massachusetts Ave.Affordable housing to be developedDetails TBD52 New StreetAffordable housing to be developedDetails TBD¯Affordable Housing Supported by theCommunity Preservation Act FY02-FY20Cambridge, MassachusettsPending CommitmentsPreservationOwnershipRentalPreservation of Affordable HousingPreservation of Affordable HousingScattered Site UnitsOwnershipRentalAffordable Housing DevelopmentOwnershipRental463 Cambridge Street Alewife Brook Condos
!=-(Finch Cambridge98 affordable rental unitsCompleted 2020Frost Terrace40 affordable rental unitsUnder constructionSquirrelwood23 affordable rental unitsUnder constructionFresh Pond Apartments504 affordable unitsExpiring use restrictionsto be preserved2072 Massachusetts Ave.Affordable housing to be developedDetails TBD52 New StreetAffordable housing to be developedDetails TBD¯Affordable Housing Supported by theCommunity Preservation Act FY02-FY20Cambridge, MassachusettsPending CommitmentsPreservationOwnershipRentalPreservation of Affordable HousingPreservation of Affordable HousingScattered Site UnitsOwnershipRentalAffordable Housing DevelopmentOwnershipRental463 Cambridge Street Alewife Brook Condos Bishop Allen Apartments
Elm Place Fresh Pond Apts. Frost Terrace*
Fresh Pond Apts. Frost Terrace* Gateview Condos
Financial Assistance Inman Square Apartments Jackson Gardens
Inman Square Apartments Jackson Gardens Jefferson Park Apartments
Jackson Gardens Jefferson Park Apartments Lancaster Street Apartments
Jefferson Park Apartments Lancaster Street Apartments Linwood Court
Lancaster Street Apartments Linwood Court Lincoln Way
Linwood Court Lincoln Way Packet Pg. 145
Neville Place New Street** Port Landing
Print Shop Condos Rindge Avenue SRO Rindge Commons**^
Rindge Avenue SRO Rindge Commons**^ Scouting Way
Rindge Commons**^ Scouting Way Squirrelwood*
Trolley Square Webster 5 Condos Windsor Street Condos
Webster 5 Condos Windsor Street Condos Main and Cherry Condos
Windsor Street Condos Main and Cherry Condos Park View Cooperative^
Cambridge Common Cambridge Common Total Cambridge Main Library, 449 Broadway
Cambridge Common Total Cambridge Main Library, 449 Broadway Cambridge Public Library, archives
Cambridge Main Library, 449 Broadway Cambridge Public Library, archives Cambridge Public Library, digitization
FY2015 Longfellow Park, staircase restoration Longfellow Park Steps
Longfellow Park, staircase restoration Longfellow Park Steps Longfellow Park - masonry repairs
Longfellow Park Steps Longfellow Park - masonry repairs Longfellow Park Total
Longfellow Park - masonry repairs Longfellow Park Total Lowell Park, landscape plan and wall restoration
Longfellow Park Total Lowell Park, landscape plan and wall restoration Lowell Park Landscape plan
FY2009 Shady Hill Square, preservation restriction $175,000
Packet Pg. 153 27 Tremont Street Homeowners Rehab, Inc.
Institutional Preservation Grants (FY05-20) Agassiz Neighborhood House, 20 Sacramento St. Cambridge Center for Adult Education, 46+52 Brattle St.
Agassiz Neighborhood House, 20 Sacramento St. Cambridge Center for Adult Education, 46+52 Brattle St. Recipient Institution
Cambridge YMCA, 820 Mass. Ave. Cambridge YWCA, 7 Temple St. Cambridge Zen Center, 193-199 Auburn Street
Cambridge YWCA, 7 Temple St. Cambridge Zen Center, 193-199 Auburn Street Cambridge-Ellis School, 80 Trowbridge St.
Cambridge Zen Center, 193-199 Auburn Street Cambridge-Ellis School, 80 Trowbridge St. Cambridgeport Baptist Church, 130 Magazine St.
Dance Complex, 536 Massachusetts Ave. East End House, 105 Spring St. Faith Lutheran Church, 311 Broadway
East End House, 105 Spring St. Faith Lutheran Church, 311 Broadway First Baptist Church, 5 Magazine St.
Faith Lutheran Church, 311 Broadway First Baptist Church, 5 Magazine St. First Church of Christ Scientist, 13 Waterhouse St.
First Church of Christ Scientist, 13 Waterhouse St. First Church, Congregational, 11 Garden St. First Korean Church, 35 Magazine Street
First Church, Congregational, 11 Garden St. First Korean Church, 35 Magazine Street First Parish Unitarian Church, 1450 Mass. Ave.
First Reformed Presbyterian Church, 51 Antrim St. First United Presbyterian Church, 1418 Cambridge St. Friends Meeting House, Longfellow Park
First United Presbyterian Church, 1418 Cambridge St. Friends Meeting House, Longfellow Park Grace Methodist Church, 56 Magazine St.
Friends Meeting House, Longfellow Park Grace Methodist Church, 56 Magazine St. Harvard-Epworth Methodist Episcopal Church, 1555 Mass.
Historic New England-Cooper-Frost-Austin Hse, 21 Linnaean Holy Trinity Parish House, 145 Brattle St. Longy School of Music, 1 Follen Street
Holy Trinity Parish House, 145 Brattle St. Longy School of Music, 1 Follen Street Margaret Fuller House, 71 Cherry St.
Longy School of Music, 1 Follen Street Margaret Fuller House, 71 Cherry St. Mass Ave. Baptist Church, 146 Hampshire St.
New School of Music, 25 Lowell St. Old Cambridge Baptist Church. 400 Harvard St. Park View Cooperative, 24-26 Cpl. McTernan Street
Old Cambridge Baptist Church. 400 Harvard St. Park View Cooperative, 24-26 Cpl. McTernan Street Pentecostal Tabernacle, South Campus, 56 Magazine St.
Park View Cooperative, 24-26 Cpl. McTernan Street Pentecostal Tabernacle, South Campus, 56 Magazine St. Reed Hall/ Episcopal Divinity School, 99 Brattle St.
St Paul Parish (Catholic), 29 Mt. Auburn St. St Peter's Episcopal Church, 838 Mass. Ave. St. Augustine’s African Orthodox Church, 137 Allston Street
St Peter's Episcopal Church, 838 Mass. Ave. St. Augustine’s African Orthodox Church, 137 Allston Street Temple Beth Shalom, 8 Tremont St.
St. Augustine’s African Orthodox Church, 137 Allston Street Temple Beth Shalom, 8 Tremont St. The Greek Institute, 1038 Massachusetts Avenue
Temple Beth Shalom, 8 Tremont St. The Greek Institute, 1038 Massachusetts Avenue Union Baptist Church, 872 Main St.
The Greek Institute, 1038 Massachusetts Avenue Union Baptist Church, 872 Main St. Western Avenue Baptist Church, 299 Western Ave.
Union Baptist Church, 872 Main St. Western Avenue Baptist Church, 299 Western Ave. Women's Educational Center, 46 Pleasant St.
Western Avenue Baptist Church, 299 Western Ave. Women's Educational Center, 46 Pleasant St. $5,958,316
FY2020 Hoyt Field Play Structures and Furniture FY2013 Hurley Playground FY2013 Hurley Street Community Garden
FY2013 Hurley Playground FY2013 Hurley Street Community Garden Hurley Street Total
FY2013 Hurley Street Community Garden Hurley Street Total $66,550
FY2007 Old Field/Birch Grove Restoration Old Field/Birch Grove Restoration Total FY2013 Pacific Street/ Passive Area and Dog Park
Old Field/Birch Grove Restoration Total FY2013 Pacific Street/ Passive Area and Dog Park $25,000
Packet Pg. 160 FY2015 Pacific Street/ Passive Area and Dog Park Pacific Street/ Passive Area and Dog Park Total
FY2015 Pacific Street/ Passive Area and Dog Park Pacific Street/ Passive Area and Dog Park Total FY2019 Peabody School Playground Improvements
Pacific Street/ Passive Area and Dog Park Total FY2019 Peabody School Playground Improvements FY2006 Purchase 12-14 Watson Street
FY2019 Peabody School Playground Improvements FY2006 Purchase 12-14 Watson Street FY2013 Railroad Rights of Way
Grant, East Cambridge OS Trust Pacific Street Dog Park
Cambridge OS Trust Pacific Street Dog Park $50,000
$5,800,000 Waverly Street Path Construction $332,000
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 10 Acorn Park Drive, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material specified by the
Dear Mr. Niranjan: On behalf of SXC Alewife Hotel, LLC, BSC Group has completed the City of Cambridge’s online application for a curb cut at 10 Acorn Park Drive to service the AC Marriott Hotel.
On behalf of SXC Alewife Hotel, LLC, BSC Group has completed the City of Cambridge’s online application for a curb cut at 10 Acorn Park Drive to service the AC Marriott Hotel. The AC Hotel is located within the Cambridge Discovery Park development and currently
online application for a curb cut at 10 Acorn Park Drive to service the AC Marriott Hotel. The AC Hotel is located within the Cambridge Discovery Park development and currently has access from Discovery Way, a private way, running parallel to Acorn Park Drive.
The AC Hotel is located within the Cambridge Discovery Park development and currently has access from Discovery Way, a private way, running parallel to Acorn Park Drive. The proposed curb cut and driveway have been designed to provide one-way only access
The proposed curb cut and driveway have been designed to provide one-way only access from Acorn Park Drive in accordance with the City of Cambridge requirements and the comments communicated at our site meetings in order to improve site access for hotel guests
and deliveries, and to provide improved emergency vehicle access to the Hotel. Visitors to the Hotel exiting Route 2 via the Alewife Station Access Road currently travel along Acorn Park Drive to Discovery Way in order to access the Hotel. The proposed drive
Visitors to the Hotel exiting Route 2 via the Alewife Station Access Road currently travel along Acorn Park Drive to Discovery Way in order to access the Hotel. The proposed drive will have improved wayfinding and access to the Hotel by providing direct access to the
will have improved wayfinding and access to the Hotel by providing direct access to the Hotel from Acorn Park Drive, including for ambulances, fire trucks and other emergency vehicles.
grant a permit to Santander for a projecting sign at the premises numbered 599 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Provided that, before erecting the above named projecting sign the petitioner shall file with the City Clerk a bond in the
INCHES on a personal computer. Inspectional Services Department is located at 831 Massachusetts Avenue, (617) 349-6100. Items that must be scanned and attached to online application:
• Copy of sign company’s contract Hall, 795 Massachusetts Avenue, (617) 349-4260. only. You must measure and state the distance by which the sign or structure will project over the public
grant a permit to Bank of America for a non-illuminated projecting sign at the premises numbered 212 Hampshire Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Provided that, before erecting the above named projecting sign the petitioner shall file with the City Clerk a
and ensure our school system is its highest priority. Kelly Dolan, Upland Road
Kelly Dolan, Upland Road Packet Pg. 335
Dear Members of the City Council, I am a Cambridge resident living with my husband and son at 158 Pleasant Street. I have lived in Cambridge for 30 years and chose to stay here because of the unique visual, musical, theatrical, and dance offerings and opportunities. A
I am a dancer and am very concerned about the future of dance (and arts more broadly) in Cambridge. We already lost Green Street Studios prior to COVID-19, and many other dance and other arts organizations are struggling, especially due to the pandemic.
I know you have so much to consider. I implore you to consider ImprovBoston, The Dance Complex, Passim, Gallery 263, Central Square Theater, Brattle Film Foundation, the ART, Beyond The Fourth Wall, The Cambridge Center for Adult Education, The Cambridge Symphony
I implore you to consider ImprovBoston, The Dance Complex, Passim, Gallery 263, Central Square Theater, Brattle Film Foundation, the ART, Beyond The Fourth Wall, The Cambridge Center for Adult Education, The Cambridge Symphony Orchestra, The Cambridge Youth Dance Program, Underground Railway Theater, CCTV, the Cambridge Jazz Festival and
Foundation, the ART, Beyond The Fourth Wall, The Cambridge Center for Adult Education, The Cambridge Symphony Orchestra, The Cambridge Youth Dance Program, Underground Railway Theater, CCTV, the Cambridge Jazz Festival and the many, many, many other crucial arts institutions that have brought people to Cambridge to stay and have exposed
One of my beloved spaces, Studio @ 550, already has lost the current location due to the building being sold to make micro apartments in Central Square. This organization and many more - especially in the arts - will not survive if they do not receive funds to help through the covid disaster. Please put this on your
bring my students to Cambridge and they eat at your restaurants, buy from your stores and pay for parking. I work at the Dance Complex, have taken at Ballet Theater of Cambridge and Dance Complex, taught and taken at Green Street and rented at Studio 550.
parking. I work at the Dance Complex, have taken at Ballet Theater of Cambridge and Dance Complex, taught and taken at Green Street and rented at Studio 550. These places are so important to me and our community and they are disappearing. The current Covid
Boston area, but in the past year the dance community has been experiencing major setbacks with the closure of studio spaces, including Green Street Studios most recently. Studio at 550 is an extremely valuable cultural institution in the vibrant cultural district of Central Square, and it is
spaces, including Green Street Studios most recently. Studio at 550 is an extremely valuable cultural institution in the vibrant cultural district of Central Square, and it is struggling to survive. I personally have attended and hosted events, taken class, and held rehearsal at Studio at 550.
music and covers, as part of multi-arts live events including dance, performance art, and live mixing of video art and sound, at Studio@550 in Central Square, Cambridge. I have previously been involved in supporting Studio@550 at various public hearings by being present and
Dear Cambridge City Council Members, I'm writing as the director of Studio@550, in addition to an independent artist who has created my career in Central Square for approximately 20 years. Most recently I was awarded one of 3 fellowships in the state for choreography via
identifying appropriate accessible and equitable space for our next iteration. We are tirelessly working on it however, and wanting to stay in Central Square, yet real estate prices are currently still too high for anything sustainable. The ins and out of why time is so important in this case relies on the fact that our landlord had offered to escrow our
I am a dancer, choreographer, and former staff member of The Dance Complex; I am based in Somerville, MA with strong ties to the arts in Cambridge. With the recent abrupt closure of Green Street Studios, the huge impact of the COVID-19 crisis on the arts, and a constant push for gentrification that further raises the costs of
impact of the COVID-19 crisis on the arts, and a constant push for gentrification that further raises the costs of rent and existence in Central Square, Cambridge and its surrounding cities and towns need the presence of Studio@550 now more than ever. When not in pandemic times, I find myself in Central Square very often to
rent and existence in Central Square, Cambridge and its surrounding cities and towns need the presence of Studio@550 now more than ever. When not in pandemic times, I find myself in Central Square very often to take class, attend performances, and share ideas with members of the dance community. I know from
employment to fellow dancers, teaching classes to local residents, performing in local festivals in the city. The Cambridge dance community was already hit hard with the recent closure of Green Street Studios, but the impacts of the pandemic have continued to threaten our vibrant arts landscape. The Council’s
considering how this will impact Studio at 550, an essential resource for dance in the Cambridge ecosystem. I am a professional improvisational dance/theatre artist based in Lexington with strong ties to the arts in Cambridge. I rehearsed, performed, and viewed dance regularly in Central Square. I have fostered important
I am a professional improvisational dance/theatre artist based in Lexington with strong ties to the arts in Cambridge. I rehearsed, performed, and viewed dance regularly in Central Square. I have fostered important mentorships and peer relationships through my creative work in Cambridge. Access to Cambridge dance
Cambridge. I rehearsed, performed, and viewed dance regularly in Central Square. I have fostered important mentorships and peer relationships through my creative work in Cambridge. Access to Cambridge dance spaces is crucial to the further development of my and others’ choreographic careers.
spaces is crucial to the further development of my and others’ choreographic careers. The Cambridge dance community was already hit hard with the recent closure of Green Street Studios, but the impacts of the pandemic have continued to threaten our vibrant arts landscape. The Council’s decision to
people depend upon these spaces. Frankly speaking, we need more dance venues not less. The Cambridge dance community was already hit hard with the recent closure of Green Street Studios, but the impacts of the pandemic have continued to threaten our vibrant arts landscape. The Council’s decision to
personal journey. Skooby Lapofsky: Hidden Life Radio - aims to increase the general awareness of trees in Cambridge and the city’s disappearing canopy. Aaron King: Bridgeside Cypher - rappers hosted at Graffiti Alley in Central Square
Skooby Lapofsky: Hidden Life Radio - aims to increase the general awareness of trees in Cambridge and the city’s disappearing canopy. Aaron King: Bridgeside Cypher - rappers hosted at Graffiti Alley in Central Square Erik Lindgren: Oral Moses in Concert - bass baritone from Atlanta, African American Spiritual.
and cultural realities; booking musicians as leaders who are women and musicians of color. Central Square Theater: The Voting Project - Act Up and Vote! Faye Dupras: Cozy Corner: Dragon Next Door
Jessica Hankey: Orbis Editions - small press artists’ publications with public events that reinforce the role of print media. Brain Arts Organization, Inc.: Black Market Flea CCTV: Our Central Square
Brain Arts Organization, Inc.: Black Market Flea CCTV: Our Central Square The full link of grant recipients with descriptions is here:
President, ECPT East End House 105 Spring Street, Cambridge MA 02141 ecplanningteam@gmail.com
I am a professional contemporary dance artist based in Somerville with strong ties to the arts in Cambridge. Cambridge has been the hub of dance for me my entire life. I have engaged in the arts in the city since I was in my early teens and continue to now. I have taken classes, performed, and taught at Green Street Studios, Jose
Cambridge has been the hub of dance for me my entire life. I have engaged in the arts in the city since I was in my early teens and continue to now. I have taken classes, performed, and taught at Green Street Studios, Jose Mateo Ballet Theatre, The Dance Complex, and Studio 550. Without these institutions in Cambridge, my dance
her space to me and my colleagues and truly fostered the arts community in Cambridge. The Cambridge dance community was already hit hard with the recent closure of Green Street Studios, but the impacts of the pandemic have continued to threaten our vibrant arts landscape. The Council’s decision to
Res C-2B zoning is the default for housing construction in all Bus A zones citywide. For example, Bus A zones include much of Cambridge Street, Fresh Pond Parkway, and the parking lot on Church St.. Changing all Bus A to Res C-2B would signal the city is serious, and thus greatly improve housing development throughout the
Greg Berndt Upland Road Packet Pg. 377
The CHA plan to demolish all of the remaining brick buildings on what's popularly known as the "Federal Side" of Jefferson Park (where, incidentally, I live.) To do so, they will presumably destroy all of the existing mature
which to play. I would submit that this would be extremely detrimental to the health and well-being of current and future residents of Jefferson Park but would presumably be allowed "as of right," without public review, were the
AHO in its present form allowed to pass. I am enclosing some photographs of the lovely tree canopy as it currently exists at Jefferson Park. (There would be even more here had not two large trees in front of the building at 1000 Jackson
of the lovely tree canopy as it currently exists at Jefferson Park. (There would be even more here had not two large trees in front of the building at 1000 Jackson Place been killed as a result of what I believe was an avoidable maintenance
Thank you for working to truly respect the rights of all residents of Cambridge equally. Sincerely, James Williamson Jefferson Park
Sincerely, James Williamson Jefferson Park Cambridge, MA
Shane; editor@cambridgeday.com Stabbing in Central Square (and an Evidently False Police Report: August 3, 2020) [NB: Please include this email as a communication to the City Council for
Two weeks ago this past Monday evening on August 3, at approximately in Central Square was stabbed while sitting at a bench in front of Rodney's. He had inadvertently sat down next to an apparently abandoned bag which
CPD want the citizenry to have highly accurate information regarding assaults and other crimes in Central Square? Whose interests are being served when this information is suppressed, or worse yet, presented in a manner that seemingly
Daily Log 8.3.2020 - Police Department - City of Cambridge, Cambridge Police Daily Log: August 3 rd, 2020. Type # Date & Time. Info. 08/03/202005:11 INCIDENT Brattle Street for a report of a larceny of a motor scooter.
Cambridge Police Daily Log: August 3 rd, 2020. Type # Date & Time. Info. 08/03/202005:11 INCIDENT Brattle Street for a report of a larceny of a motor scooter. Packet Pg. 384
Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, James Williamson Jefferson Park Cambridge, MA
mobilize support for the 80-10-10 formula from which they benefit directly. There is scarcely any sign of embarrassment. The CHA reportedly circulated a “petition” of support at Lincoln Way and several other locations. No petitions were spontaneously circulated by anyone at Jefferson Park, where I live. One might ask,
embarrassment. The CHA reportedly circulated a “petition” of support at Lincoln Way and several other locations. No petitions were spontaneously circulated by anyone at Jefferson Park, where I live. One might ask, Packet Pg. 397
be compensated for with a comparable reduction in the funding for the so-called "affordable housing." At Jefferson Park, a CPA-funded project involved the CHA's clear-cutting approximately 96 trees at the existing site. CHA now seek to destroy all the remaining brick buildings at Jefferson Park and to add 50 per
At Jefferson Park, a CPA-funded project involved the CHA's clear-cutting approximately 96 trees at the existing site. CHA now seek to destroy all the remaining brick buildings at Jefferson Park and to add 50 per cent additional “density.” (While they drive in from the suburbs!) How could anyone in his or her right mind
gather here has concerns - about a lot of things Attached is a letter outlining being left out of the process of reimagining Cambridge Street but also, not feeling like the City of Cambridge has supported the small business community in re-opening (as best we can) in light of a global
Attached is a letter outlining being left out of the process of reimagining Cambridge Street but also, not feeling like the City of Cambridge has supported the small business community in re-opening (as best we can) in light of a global pandemic. The City of Cambridge has been slower than our neighbors to create a consistent campaign and with so many
I am writing to voice my support for BioMed Realty and the new development they have proposed for 585 Third Street. As the owner of Cambridge Spirits Dana Hill Liquors, small businesses that straddle Kendall and Central Squares, respectively, I believe it would benefit
proposed for 585 Third Street. As the owner of Cambridge Spirits Dana Hill Liquors, small businesses that straddle Kendall and Central Squares, respectively, I believe it would benefit both of those areas- and the city as a whole.
accessible to all Cantabridgians. My shop is also on the doorstep of Central Square, and I have seen the toll that COVID is taking on that neighborhood- especially some beloved arts organizations, which were already
around the world. ImprovBoston is at the forefront of that change. Since I moved to the greater Boston area in 2016, ImprovBoston has brought me to Central Square every single week. When I first joined the community, I would attend class once a week,
and drop into a show most weekends. By 2020, I was rolling into ImprovBoston 5 or 6 times a week, every week. And with almost every trip to Central Square, I would visit another local business. The Green Goddess bowl at Life Alive has fueled many of my performances at
week, every week. And with almost every trip to Central Square, I would visit another local business. The Green Goddess bowl at Life Alive has fueled many of my performances at ImprovBoston’s community-centered Harold Nights. Naco Taco is a favorite hang-out spot after
afterwards. I buy my plants at Central Square Florist, I get my art supplies in the basement of Artist and Craftsman Supply Cambridge, I get my records at Cheapo, and I get my exercise at the Dance
world. ImprovBoston is at the forefront of that change. Since I moved to the greater Boston area in 2016, ImprovBoston has brought me to Central Square every single week. When I first joined the community, I would attend class once a week, and drop into a show most weekends. By 2020, I
Packet Pg. 424 was rolling into ImprovBoston 5 or 6 times a week, every week. And with almost every trip to Central Square, I would visit another local business. The Green Goddess bowl at Life Alive has fueled many of my performances at
was rolling into ImprovBoston 5 or 6 times a week, every week. And with almost every trip to Central Square, I would visit another local business. The Green Goddess bowl at Life Alive has fueled many of my performances at ImprovBoston’s community-centered Harold Nights. Naco Taco is a favorite hang-out spot after a rehearsal. I’ve had
has ever attended a show without INSISTING we get Aleppo Palace takeout afterwards. I buy my plants at Central Square Florist, I get my art supplies in the basement of Artist and Craftsman Supply Cambridge, I get my records at Cheapo, and I get my exercise at the Dance Complex! And I would not have discovered
I believe that I have made my feelings abundantly clear about the CSO. I truly hope that you will opt to remove Cambridge Street from this restrictive and prescriptive ordinance. Leaving it in will almost definitely result in an outcome that a handful of you have publicly stated would be disappointing. While deciding what actions you will take tonight,
out that I believe that there is a potential problem with the two year look back in that amendment. Two sites come to mind quickly that this would impact. The Sunset Cafe site at 851 Cambridge Street, caught fire in January of 2019, so we are less than 4 months away from the two year cap. Additionally, the University Monument Works, at 1055 Cambridge
mind quickly that this would impact. The Sunset Cafe site at 851 Cambridge Street, caught fire in January of 2019, so we are less than 4 months away from the two year cap. Additionally, the University Monument Works, at 1055 Cambridge Street has been vacant for over three years. Losing first floor retail on either of these sites would negatively impact the
TO: council@cambridgema.gov, clerk@cambidgema.gov Monday 14Sep20 530pm Cambridge City Council Meeting I’m Fritz Donovan, 42 Irving Street, Cambridge.
Monday 14Sep20 530pm Cambridge City Council Meeting I’m Fritz Donovan, 42 Irving Street, Cambridge. Mayor Siddiqui, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councilors –
Sure! This is way down on everyone’s priority list, BUT … - Enough already! The 8 Central Square banks are already plenty “SIGNED UP.” Indeed, some are screaming: Look Here > Look Here More > No, Look Only Here!
air rights, not the bank$’. No one’s entitled to use our public way to advertise, least of all banks that are overwhelming our once vibrant Central Square. Please just stop favoring banks with the privilege of protruding into our public way & air rights.
Please just stop favoring banks with the privilege of protruding into our public way & air rights. Central Square – Mass Ave., 8 Banks, 4 blocks (Photos attached) *Yes, Santander’s proposed projecting sign is smaller than those the Council has already permitted.
projects he was proudest of was his collaborating with the MBTA to place a covered bus shelter near the LBJ Apartment on Erie Street, so that the senior residents who utilized that stop would have some protection from the elements; and
WHEREAS: Bill received an MBA from Boston College; and WHEREAS: Bill spent two years working at IBM in Kingston, New York and then began a thirty- year career in commercial banking services at State Street Bank in Boston, beginning
WHEREAS: Bill spent two years working at IBM in Kingston, New York and then began a thirty- year career in commercial banking services at State Street Bank in Boston, beginning as a credit analyst in 1969; and retiring as an Executive Vice President of Commercial
year career in commercial banking services at State Street Bank in Boston, beginning as a credit analyst in 1969; and retiring as an Executive Vice President of Commercial Banking Services in 1999; and
Over the course of the past year, a number of residents of the LBJ Apartments, located at 150 Erie Street, have voiced concerns that vehicles are frequently illegally parking in front of their building; and
plans that will lead to increased enforcement of the parking regulations in front of 150 Erie Street, that will discourage illegal parking in front of the building, and to report back to the City Council on this matter in a timely manner.
It has come to the City Council’s attention that there is a recurring problem on Columbia Street involving the placement of trash and discarded furniture on the streets during the final weekend of each of the summer months, coinciding with the periods of
greatest annual tenant turnover; and There are several multi-family homes on Columbia Street that are mostly owned by out-of-town landlords, and unfortunately there are no incentives for these landlords to
The discarded furniture and trash piles are often left out for several days between scheduled trash pick-ups, forcing residents of Columbia Street to regularly contact the City to request that the DPW be dispatched to pick up the discarded trash – a task
City to request that the DPW be dispatched to pick up the discarded trash – a task which the DPW unfailingly does, and which the Columbia Street residents are grateful for; and
As this is an issue that seems to recur each year during the summer months, the City should be able to anticipate the need for increased DPW trash pick-ups on Columbia Streets during the months of June – September each year and be able to build this into
Streets during the months of June – September each year and be able to build this into the DPW’s schedule of service, so that it does not continue to fall upon the Columbia Street residents to request this additional service each summer; now therefore be it
Works Department to review this matter, establish a plan that is responsive to the concerns of the Columbia Street residents, and report back to the City Council on this matter in a timely manner.
COUNCILLOR SIMMONS WHEREAS: Walden Street has been identified by Cambridge residents as an area with motor vehicle speeding issues; and
vehicle speeding issues; and This is especially dangerous on the section where Walden Street curves between Raymond St and Richdale Ave, making it difficult for drivers to see pedestrians who
This is especially dangerous on the section where Walden Street curves between Raymond St and Richdale Ave, making it difficult for drivers to see pedestrians who may be attempting to cross the street, and on the section of Walden Street between
Raymond St and Richdale Ave, making it difficult for drivers to see pedestrians who may be attempting to cross the street, and on the section of Walden Street between Richdale Ave and Massachusetts Ave; and
may be attempting to cross the street, and on the section of Walden Street between Richdale Ave and Massachusetts Ave; and This potentially dangerous section of Walden Street is also near Raymond Park, which
Richdale Ave and Massachusetts Ave; and This potentially dangerous section of Walden Street is also near Raymond Park, which is a major neighborhood destination, including for children and families; and
and Transportation Department to examine what traffic calming measures may be implemented for these sections of Walden Street; and be it further That the City Manager shall report back to the Council on this in a timely manner.
Councillor McGovern opened the floor to public comment Laura McMurry, 334 Harvard Street, is in favor of the cycling safety ordinance as amended. It will provide rapid installation of many miles of safe protected bike lanes, some using the quick build method.
Kimberley Hunt, 10 Wendell street, stated that the world is accelerating bike infrastructure projects and believes that Cambridge should follow suit. James Williamson, 1000 Jackson Place, stated that he cannot traverse a simple crosswalk safely because
believes that Cambridge should follow suit. James Williamson, 1000 Jackson Place, stated that he cannot traverse a simple crosswalk safely because of the way bicyclists in the city race through red lights and crosswalks. The city has ignored the safety of
pedestrians. John Attanucci, 608 Huron Avenue, works at MIT in the transit lab and chairs the city's transit advisory committee. Generally, he supports the separated bicycle lane plan. He stated that he is concerned about
direction, might not actually satisfy the transportation requirements that the city will need in the future. East Cambridge needs bicycle lanes. She would like to see more holistic approach to street infrastructure. Gavin Lund, 166 Charles Street, we need a dramatic mode shift away from fossil fuel powered vehicles,
East Cambridge needs bicycle lanes. She would like to see more holistic approach to street infrastructure. Gavin Lund, 166 Charles Street, we need a dramatic mode shift away from fossil fuel powered vehicles, to more sustainable modes of transportation of which biking is one. And in particular, there's a huge
pedestrians. Christopher Cassa, 103 Gore Street, stated that defining a place for cyclists to safely ride through our streets that will help improve the safety for cyclists, but also improve general safety on the streets. He
supports moving forward on these issues. Amy Flax, 86 Normandy Avenue, spoke in support of this ordinance. Separated bike lanes, in fact, support many different modalities in terms of transportation, and pedestrians and bikers. If kids don't have
safe alternatives for biking, then their lives are in danger. Itamar Turner-Trauring, 139 Oxford Street, is excited about this ordinance. because It is very important that we transition away from private cars towards things like bikes and buses and in many ways are very
July 7, 2020 Marisa Carlos, 8 Kenwood Street, spoke in support of the ordinance. Cyclists sometimes race through red lights because of a lack of bicycle specific infrastructure. Adding bicycle specific infrastructure, like
bicycle red lights, will help with that. Encouraged the committee to move the ordinance forward. Gleb Bahmutov, 19 Winslow Street, explained that the number one concern with biking is safety. He fully supports this ordinance.
supports this ordinance. Sarah levy, 52 Pearl Street, cycling is a way that people can get around healthily and not cause emissions that cause health issues for others.
In response to a question from Councillor Timothy Toomey, Kathy Watkins explained that the portion of Huron Avenue between Fresh Pond Parkway and Glacken field is in the Bike Plan. The City evaluating how to add a protected bike facilities and a pedestrian connection to the section of Huron Avenue.
Huron Avenue between Fresh Pond Parkway and Glacken field is in the Bike Plan. The City evaluating how to add a protected bike facilities and a pedestrian connection to the section of Huron Avenue. Councillor Timothy Toomey expressed frustration with the lack of outreach to community members and
should consider it as a policy order. He stated that he shared Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler concerns about racial equity. He stated that he did not support the idea of removing Cambridge Street from the ordinance.
Facilities shall be installed on streets in either the Separated Network or be installed along: (a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, or (b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street
(a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, or (b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound.
(b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities are proposed to be Permanent Separated Bicycle
detailing why the extension was necessary by no later than May 1, 2025. D. By no later than May 1, 2022, the City Manager shall complete the installation of continuous Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between
D. By no later than May 1, 2022, the City Manager shall complete the installation of continuous Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting:
Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street;
Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and
(b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street.
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along Massachusetts Avenue other than (a),
(d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along Massachusetts Avenue other than (a), (b), (c) and (d) are proposed to be Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes, the requirements of
Facilities has commenced prior to the deadline established by this Subsection D, provided, however, that if Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes are to be installed along Massachusetts Avenue from Sydney Street to Inman Street, the requirements of this Subsection D shall be
however, that if Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes are to be installed along Massachusetts Avenue from Sydney Street to Inman Street, the requirements of this Subsection D shall be satisfied so long as the design of such Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes has commenced
Bicycle Lanes and or Quick-Build Separated Bicycle Lanes on: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street.
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. Packet Pg. 949
along (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or
(b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street,
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street, within one year of the City Manager’s submission to the City Council of the analysis of the
years of the submission of the impacts analysis. F. Any Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along segment (a) of Subsection E, Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street, must also be separated from Public
F. Any Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along segment (a) of Subsection E, Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street, must also be separated from Public Transportation for the full stretch of that segment.
Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along: (a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, (b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street,
(a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, (b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street, (c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and
(b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street, (c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and (d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from
(c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and (d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound,
(d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound, provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord
Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound, provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord Avenue to the segment of Concord Avenue contiguous to Follen Street shall be improved to
provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord Avenue to the segment of Concord Avenue contiguous to Follen Street shall be improved to meet the needs of users of all ages and abilities.
Facilities shall be installed on streets in either the Separated Network or be installed along: (a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, or (b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street
(a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, or (b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound.
(b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities are proposed to be Permanent Separated Bicycle
detailing why the extension was necessary by no later than May 1, 2025. D. By no later than May 1, 2022, the City Manager shall complete the installation of continuous Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between
D. By no later than May 1, 2022, the City Manager shall complete the installation of continuous Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting:
Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street;
Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and
(b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street.
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along Massachusetts Avenue other than (a),
(d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along Massachusetts Avenue other than (a), (b), (c) and (d) are proposed to be Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes, the requirements of
Facilities has commenced prior to the deadline established by this Subsection D, provided, however, that if Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes are to be installed along Massachusetts Avenue from Sydney Street to Inman Street, the requirements of this Subsection D shall be
however, that if Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes are to be installed along Massachusetts Avenue from Sydney Street to Inman Street, the requirements of this Subsection D shall be satisfied so long as the design of such Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes has commenced
Bicycle Lanes and or Quick-Build Separated Bicycle Lanes on: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street.
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. Packet Pg. 954
along (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or
(b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street,
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street, within one year of the City Manager’s submission to the City Council of the analysis of the
years of the submission of the impacts analysis. F. Any Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along segment (a) of Subsection E, Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street, must also be separated from Public
F. Any Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along segment (a) of Subsection E, Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street, must also be separated from Public Transportation for the full stretch of that segment.
Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along: (a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, (b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street,
(a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, (b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street, (c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and
(b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street, (c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and (d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from
(c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and (d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound,
(d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound, provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord
Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound, provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord Avenue to the segment of Concord Avenue contiguous to Follen Street shall be improved to
provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord Avenue to the segment of Concord Avenue contiguous to Follen Street shall be improved to meet the needs of users of all ages and abilities.
Councillor Carlone opened public comment at 6:00 pm. Margaret Drury, 1 Dudley Court, Cambridge stated that she supported ordination of the proposed affordable housing zoning overlay. Due to the soaring costs of housing many black, brown and
community. Most important of all, the overlay would go a long way towards ending the increased de facto segregation in Cambridge This segregation is neither equitable nor defensible. Brennan Waters, 466 Cambridge Street in East Cambridge. The community is hurt whenever a
increased de facto segregation in Cambridge This segregation is neither equitable nor defensible. Brennan Waters, 466 Cambridge Street in East Cambridge. The community is hurt whenever a family has to leave Cambridge because the rent was raised and whenever new parents who love
Brennan Waters, 466 Cambridge Street in East Cambridge. The community is hurt whenever a family has to leave Cambridge because the rent was raised and whenever new parents who love the city move out because they can't afford to buy a house or a condo here or whenever someone
July 8, 2020 Jade Sylvan, 502 Green Street in Cambridge, lives in a multifamily three-story home that would probably not be allowed to be built under a lot of the restrictions that are currently in place. She
stated that she supports the Affordable Housing Overlay. David Sullivan, 16 Notre Dame Avenue in North Cambridge, strongly supports the proposed affordable housing overlay. He believed the housing crisis in Cambridge has become worse over
David Sullivan, 16 Notre Dame Avenue in North Cambridge, strongly supports the proposed affordable housing overlay. He believed the housing crisis in Cambridge has become worse over the last few years. It is important to address the long history of redlining and other racial
developers a chance to compete fairly in all neighborhoods of the city, not just some. Loren Crowe, 8 Museum Way in East Cambridge. She supports the affordable housing Overlay. Council has a mandate to pass the AHO. City should choose to shift zoning ordinance from one
housing overlay as soon as possible and move on to so much more. Esther Hanig, 136 Pine Street in Cambridge. The passage of the Affordable Housing overlay would help to restore both some diversity and social justice to the city. According to the 2017
affordable housing, create true economic and racial diversity in all neighborhoods. Jackson Moore-Otto, 9 Doane Street. Strongly supports the Affordable Housing Overlay. The city needs abundant housing that includes the affordable housing overlay.
city needs abundant housing that includes the affordable housing overlay. Peter Williams, 35 Homer Avenue in West Cambridge. Strongly supports the Affordable Housing Overlay. Cambridge is a wonderful place to live but right now, only the wealthy can
Peter Williams, 35 Homer Avenue in West Cambridge. Strongly supports the Affordable Housing Overlay. Cambridge is a wonderful place to live but right now, only the wealthy can afford to actually buy a home here. The restrictions that lead to this unaffordability have
policies are saying remain, and even more of their consequences linger. Eva Martin Blythe, 7 Temple Street, Cambridge. Spoke in support of the Affordable Housing Overlay. The city needs for more quality, affordable multi-family housing. The inequalities
July 8, 2020 Susan Schlesinger, 34 Glenwood Avenue in Cambridge port. She is a member of the Affordable Housing Trust Fund board. She urged the city council to act quickly on the passage of the
housing overlay. Dan Eisner, 6 Bristol Street. The city's zoning is a quintessential example of systemic racism. Exclusionary zoning was established about a century ago to ensure that certain neighborhoods
overlay not be amended further, and why it must be passed as is. Cathleen Higgins, 345 Norfolk Street in Cambridge. She spoke in support of the affordable housing Overlay. The AHO is about righting the wrongs of racist zoning policies that have
resulted in racially segregated neighborhoods in Cambridge. Bill Boehm, 18 Laurel Street. Spoke in favor of passing the affordable housing overlay. Nearly all public justifications of zoning rests on the constitutionally permissible goals of protecting the
systemic racist structure. Gabe Colombo, 16 Chauncy Street, architecture graduate student at Harvard. Strongly supports the ordination of the affordable housing loan overlay and much more action to encourage and
instances. Jonathan Behrens, 115 Hampshire Street. Strongly supports the affordable housing overlay. November's election gave a clear mandate in support of the AHO. He urged the council to pass
July 8, 2020 Alexander Roederer, 119 Harvard Street. The committee should quickly pass the affordable housing overlay as a modest first step toward creating more affordable housing in our city. Rent
it just makes good economic sense for Cambridge. Lori Thomas, 111 Magazine Street. Urged the council to pass the affordable housing overlay as quickly as possible without further amendment.
quickly as possible without further amendment. Luis Mejias, 18 Plymouth Street. The barriers put in place that perpetuate the inequities and racism of redlining need to be done away with; single family zoning or rather bans on
to move the affordable housing overlay forward. Pawel Latawiec, 2 Earhart Street. Spoke in support of the affordable housing overlay. A key component will be to reduce the soft costs of affordable housing construction. According to the
costs, which the AHO can diminish, go toward lawyers, consultants and banks. Charles Franklin, 162 Hampshire Street. Urged committee to move the affordable housing overlay forward to the council with a favorable recommendation. Cambridge does not need more
Charles Franklin, 162 Hampshire Street. Urged committee to move the affordable housing overlay forward to the council with a favorable recommendation. Cambridge does not need more luxury single family homes in the heart of the city. He would also like to see the income range
live here. Richard Krushnic, 20 Oak Street. He stated that the AHO is the best possible next step that the city can take to create more affordable housing. He recommended adding a 20% requirement for
homeownership units. He recommended a 20% requirement for three-bedroom units or larger. Suzanne Blier, 5 Fuller Place. Sher strongly supports ending zoning for single family homes throughout the city. She stated that the city needs to fund people to be able to buy their homes.
July 8, 2020 Jim Stockard, 141 Oxford Street, is a member of the Affordable Housing Trust Fund. A primary goal for the city is to increase the number of homes for people of modest means. The housing
housing overlay. George Metzger, 90 Antrim Street. The affordable housing overlay petition corrects patterns of development that denied lower income people and people of color from choice and where they
community, we need this council to adopt this overlay. Jessica Schmidt, a resident of Cambridge for over 15 years and lives at 17 Laurel Street. Making housing more accessible to people can only benefit the community. She is in favor of affordable
housing. Burhan Azeem, 35 Speridakis Terrace. We are now looking at a time when perhaps a third of renters are not able to pay rent. We have massive unemployment and perhaps are heading into a
to get them done. This is another bill that we need to get done and we need to get it done soon. Jessica Sheehan, 99 Norfolk Street. She spoke in support of passage of the affordable housing overlay. The overlay will not solve the housing crisis. The crisis extends well beyond Cambridge
Jessica Sheehan, 99 Norfolk Street. She spoke in support of passage of the affordable housing overlay. The overlay will not solve the housing crisis. The crisis extends well beyond Cambridge and was over a half century in the making from the racist redlining maps that still look
that damage and certainly not overnight. The overlay is a modest step in the right direction. Aaron Rosenthal, 88 Hancock Street. Affordable housing is one of the most important issues facing the city. He wants the city to pass the affordable housing overlay as a first step to
in Cambridge. Lauren Curry, 3 Concord Avenue. Spoke in favor of the overlay in order to provide housing for many waiting families.
July 8, 2020 Jean Hannon, 7 Woodrow Wilson Court, spoke in support of the affordable housing overlay zoning petition. She was born and raised in Cambridge but can only afford to live here because
Jean Hannon, 7 Woodrow Wilson Court, spoke in support of the affordable housing overlay zoning petition. She was born and raised in Cambridge but can only afford to live here because she found an affordable unit.
she found an affordable unit. Josh Cohen, 276 Huron Avenue, is a developer of affordable housing across the Northeast. He explained that affordable aousing is driven by the requirements of his funders. Affordable
city. Teresa Cardosi, 7 Woodrow Wilson Court. A lot of time was already put into negotiations for the modifications to the original 100% affordable housing overlay plan. And as no plan is ever
to afford to live in Cambridge. Florrie Darwin, 7 Follen Street, and I'm a member of the Affordable Housing trusts and I've been working on affordable housing issues in Cambridge for over 25 years. And I really thrilled to
Florrie Darwin, 7 Follen Street, and I'm a member of the Affordable Housing trusts and I've been working on affordable housing issues in Cambridge for over 25 years. And I really thrilled to hear all the support that my co Kenta bridges have been calling in and voicing for the affordable
be a very important lever to continue making progress in that direction. Kavish Gandhi, 115 Hampshire Street, spoke in favor of the affordable housing overlay. These changes to zoning standards and the permitting process will allow nonprofit affordable
July 8, 2020 Noah Sawyer,1035 Cambridge Street, real estate for Just-A-Start, one of Cambridge's nonprofit affordable housing developers. Spoke in support for the overlay. There have been several
aggressive offers on and were outbid by developers looking to build luxury housing. Gilberte Houbart, 51 Chilton Street in Cambridge. The city has lost about 18% of the tree canopy in the past 10 years. Trees in the cities are critical to health, both physical and mental. Tree
has most of the canopy in the City. Justin Saif, 259 Hurley Street. Spoke in support of the affordable housing overlay. The affordable housing overlay is a great first step to address the housing crisis in Cambridge.
these additional limits are adopted. Fritz Donovan, 42 Irving Street. The key to quick housing for a lot of people is density. Density now is lethal. Even an elevator in a high rise is lethal. We have a huge responsibility on the
key points. Saul Tannenbaum, 16 Cottage Street. Spoke in support of the affordable housing overlay. This ordinance does not go far enough to undo the legacy of race and class that underlies the land use
the city should be proud, it is only a first step. Aaron Homer, 90 Grozier Road. This is a chance to make progress on two of the most critical problems of our time; climate change and ongoing racial inequities and housing. Urged the
council to pass the overlay quickly and without amendments. Jacquelyn Fahey Sandell, 8 Clinton Street in Cambridge. She supports affordable housing but want developers to abide by current height and setback rules. The pictures that were shown of
and not just a story here and there. Kathleen Moore, 9 Doane Street, asked council to move forward quickly with the affordable housing Overlay .
manager's contract extension, and she opened the floor to public comment. Samuel Gebru, 812 Memorial Drive, spoke in support of the city manager’s contract renewal. He has worked with Mr. DePasquale in various capacities throughout the years and really thoroughly enjoyed the
that exists in the government, remove the city manager, and bring democracy back to the city. Judy Johnson, 55 Antrim Street in Cambridge, stated that the city manager's whole term has been to garner more power and control for his position and to diminish the role of the city council. The city
July 20, 2020 Hector Acevedo, 125 Portland Street, stated that he supports extending the contract of the city manager. He stated that Mr. DePasquale is very active in the community, working with non-profits and supporting
community organizations. He stated that no one loves the city more than Mr. DePasquale. Henry Wortis, 106 Berkshire Street in Cambridge, stated that the City Council should select a manager with the best strategy to achieve these goals. He stated that allowing the requested extension is a good
idea because it will give the council time to formulate a process to select the next City Manager. Louise Parker, 1 Warwick Park, has many concerns about Mr. DePasquale’s job performance. She said she is most concerned with the manager's refusal to conduct a broadband feasibility study, requests for
national City Manager search. Christopher Schmidt, 17 Laurel Street in Cambridge, Massachusetts, said that he has been surprised by the lack of visibility into the city manager’s responsiveness to city council policy orders, priorities,
He stated that, nevertheless, changing the city manager during the pandemic is not the best path. Lee Farris, 269 Norfolk Street, president of the Cambridge Residents Alliance, asked that the council extend the manager’s contract for one year only. She asked that the Council decide on a process to
certain policy orders. Theresa Hamacher, 95 Raymond Street, supports extending the city manager’s contract by just one year, in order to conduct a search. She encouraged the council to re-examine the duties and responsibilities of
the City Manager position. Jennifer Lin, 32 Oakland Street, encouraged the Council to revise how the city considers the city manager. She is concerned to find that some policy orders and legal requirements were not being met by
an important official should remain unelected. Ilan Levy, 148 Spring Street, spoke in support of changing the city government to remove the unelected city manager, and to create an elected leadership position.
city manager, and to create an elected leadership position. Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street, encouraged the council to select a new city manager. At most, she supports extending the current contract for one year.
what the city needs. Kit Haines, 6 Florence Street in Cambridge, asked the council not to extend this contract. She stated that she is very disappointed by not being allowed to leave the house. Not the City Manager’s job to determine
if shared streets are safe, but to implement the city council's vote. Teni Lavoie, 20 Locust Street, spoke in support renewing the existing contract. Always felt the Mr. DePasquale listened and never made decisions in a vacuum.
Councillor Simmons opened the hearing to public comment. Valerie Bonds, 808-812 Memorial Drive, asked how a person applies for a position on the Cambridge Housing Authority Board. She noted her concern about the renovations at 808-812 Memorial Drive.
Valerie Bonds, 808-812 Memorial Drive, asked how a person applies for a position on the Cambridge Housing Authority Board. She noted her concern about the renovations at 808-812 Memorial Drive. James Williamson stated that in Cambridge, the public does not have the opportunity for public at CHA
Housing Authority Board. She noted her concern about the renovations at 808-812 Memorial Drive. James Williamson stated that in Cambridge, the public does not have the opportunity for public at CHA meetings. He said that it could be done in a way that is reasonably well-managed. He asked the proposed
said that each of the various city parcels has different characteristics that is amendable to different kinds of uses. She noted that Cherry Street is one property that the staff feels strongly that housing would be a good use on that site. She explained that a public process was initiated that ended in an impasse. She
have a discussion with the neighborhood which will help to define the discussion. Mayor Siddiqui asked about property at the intersection of Main Street and Massachusetts Avenue. Ms. Farooq responded that it is slated for housing because it is a part of a transfer agreement but the issue is
terms of preferences. She said we should make it easier for people to get into the inclusionary program. She said that she is pleased with movement around the Cherry Street lot. She said that the Housing Committee members need to focus their attention and determine what the Committee sees as important
present Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street, said that the rules are a jumble with respect to reconsideration and that they are internally inconsistent. She emphasized the importance of public comment.
that they are internally inconsistent. She emphasized the importance of public comment. John Hawkinson, 84 Massachusetts Avenue, stated that he was concerned with the possibility of reducing public comment. He stated that in other communities, public comment is more interactive and
I also want to provide some information about the Family Resource Fairs that my Office has been working to host with CPSD and the School Committee. We began these Fairs on Saturday, August 22nd at the Pisani Center and 808 Memorial Drive to assist families with their back-to-school enrollment forms.
working to host with CPSD and the School Committee. We began these Fairs on Saturday, August 22nd at the Pisani Center and 808 Memorial Drive to assist families with their back-to-school enrollment forms. We will be continuing these safe and socially-distanced in-person events every Saturday from 10:00 AM
I also want to provide some information about the Family Resource Fairs that my Office has been working to host with CPSD and the School Committee. We began these Fairs on Saturday, August 22nd at the Pisani Center and 808 Memorial Drive to assist families with their back-to-school enrollment forms. We will be
to host with CPSD and the School Committee. We began these Fairs on Saturday, August 22nd at the Pisani Center and 808 Memorial Drive to assist families with their back-to-school enrollment forms. We will be continuing these safe and socially-distanced in-person events every Saturday from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM
