Councillor Simmons Item Number 20-5, regarding implementing traffic calming measures on Upton Street. CMA 2020 #229
Toomey, Councillor Zondervan Item Number 20-25, which requested that the City work with the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA) to identify the bus stop at the corner of Massachusetts Avenue at Churchill
Item Number 20-25, which requested that the City work with the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA) to identify the bus stop at the corner of Massachusetts Avenue at Churchill Avenue as serving Matignon High School.
Authority (MBTA) to identify the bus stop at the corner of Massachusetts Avenue at Churchill Avenue as serving Matignon High School. CMA 2020 #233
CHARTER RIGHT premises numbered 159 Allston Street; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works.
4. An application was received from David Biancaville, requesting permission for a curb cut at the premises numbered 10 Acorn Park Drive; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works. No
Toomey, Councillor Zondervan for a projecting sign at the premises numbered 71 Mount Auburn Street. approval has been received from Inspectional Services, Department of Public Works, Community Development Department and
Toomey, Councillor Zondervan numbered 810 Main Street; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works. No response has been
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
19-141. Report on looking into the idea of hiring a social worker in the FY2021 budget for the Central Square Library branch. Vice Mayor Mallon, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (Calendar Item #8)
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Report on the potential for implementing sufficient traffic-calming solutions on Upton Street. Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (O-7) from 1/27/2020
20-25. Report on changing the name of the bus stop from “Massachusetts Avenue at Churchill Avenue” to “Matignon High School at Churchill Avenue”. Councillor Toomey (O-5) from 6/1/2020
neighboring community and the many individuals who commute through the area via the Alewife Red Line, the Minuteman Bikeway, Rindge Avenue and Alewife Brook Parkway.
Zondervan (O-12) from 7/27/2020 that will lead to increased enforcement of the parking regulations in front of 150 Erie Street, that will discourage illegal parking in front of the building.
Mayor Siddiqui, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Nolan, Councillor Sobrinho- Wheeler (O-6) from 9/14/2020 Street, Raymond Street and Richdale Ave.
Wheeler (O-6) from 9/14/2020 Street, Raymond Street and Richdale Ave. Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor Simmons (O-11)
from 9/14/2020 Huron Ave and Garden Street. Councillor Nolan (O-1) from 9/21/2020
REPORT RECEIVED AND ACCEPTED the PB4 proposal, particularly on Broadway and Norfolk Street. Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Councillor Toomey, Councillor
opportunities in the City’s commercial areas. The District Assessment for Central Square was completed in 2018, for Inman Square in 2019, and for Porter Square-Lower Massachusetts Ave.
Assessment for Central Square was completed in 2018, for Inman Square in 2019, and for Porter Square-Lower Massachusetts Ave. in February 2020. The next business and customer intercept
Please find attached a response to Awaiting Report Item Number 20-5, regarding implementing traffic calming measures on Upton Street, received from Assistant City Manager for Community Development Iram Farooq and Traffic, Parking & Transportation Director Joseph Barr.
Re: Awaiting Report 20-5 (dated January 27, 2020) regarding implementing traffic calming measures on Upton Street. Date: October 13, 2020
The information below is provided in response to Awaiting Report 20-5, dated January 27, 2020, related to implementing traffic calming measures on Upton Street to support safety, as is consistent with the City’s ongoing commitment to
regarding issues related to pedestrian and traffic safety, as well as pick up/drop off on Upton Street. In response to these discussions, staff have reviewed the neighborhood context, and specifically street operations, evaluate traffic
plan on installing a push button-activated Rectangular Rapid Flash Beacon (RRFB) at the existing crosswalk on Magazine and Upton Street (see example in Exhibit-A). The RRFB is a traffic control device intended to alert motorists traveling on
The RRFB is a traffic control device intended to alert motorists traveling on Magazine Street when a pedestrian wishes to cross at the crosswalk. Staff are also evaluating other street operation strategies including the
Staff are also evaluating other street operation strategies including the implementation of a one-way traffic operation for Upton Street during school drop off and pick up hours, from Magazine Street to Pleasant Street, which is currently
implementation of a one-way traffic operation for Upton Street during school drop off and pick up hours, from Magazine Street to Pleasant Street, which is currently the direction school buses travel on Upton Street. The timing of implementing this
off and pick up hours, from Magazine Street to Pleasant Street, which is currently the direction school buses travel on Upton Street. The timing of implementing this change would need to be carefully coordinated with the school, particularly given
the discussion and review of potential additional measures and/or signage needs in order to address the safety concerns on Upton Street. Staff will also recommend that School administrators reach out and inform the residents of Upton Street and
order to address the safety concerns on Upton Street. Staff will also recommend that School administrators reach out and inform the residents of Upton Street and the school community about the traffic calming measures to improve street safety.
additional outdoor space to enhance their operations. The City has successfully partnered with a number of restaurants in Harvard Square to provide additional space for outdoor dining, most prominently on Bow Street between DeWolfe Street and Plympton Street. Leaders from HSBA
number of restaurants in Harvard Square to provide additional space for outdoor dining, most prominently on Bow Street between DeWolfe Street and Plympton Street. Leaders from HSBA Packet Pg. 56
concerns about the impact on emergency response that would result from the closure of major streets such as JFK Street, Mount Auburn Street, and portions of Brattle Street and/or Church Street (since those two streets provide overlapping access to certain locations within the Square).
and customer parking options. These construction projects also constrain the locations where we can implement street closures that are beneficial to the local area (e.g., Linden Street is already closed due to Adams House construction). Representatives from a range of City departments
can implement street closures that are beneficial to the local area (e.g., Linden Street is already closed due to Adams House construction). Representatives from a range of City departments meet monthly with representatives from HSBA, HSNA, and small businesses to coordinate
consideration, we recommend the following possibilities: • Maintain the existing full and partial street closures that are currently in place in Harvard Square, specifically Winthrop Street from JFK Street to Eliot Street and the segment of
• Maintain the existing full and partial street closures that are currently in place in Harvard Square, specifically Winthrop Street from JFK Street to Eliot Street and the segment of Bow Street from DeWolfe Street to Plympton Street. These closures help support outdoor
Square, specifically Winthrop Street from JFK Street to Eliot Street and the segment of Bow Street from DeWolfe Street to Plympton Street. These closures help support outdoor dining for adjacent restaurants and provide additional pedestrian space for people
traveling to and through the Square. • Palmer Street is currently an underutilized public space in Harvard Square. At the same time, it fulfils an important delivery function supporting adjacent businesses and office
the street, and draw new activity, while still accommodating the delivery function. • Brattle Street, between Eliot Street and Church Street, adjacent to Deguglielmo Plaza, is the location most often mentioned for a recurring closure. This space could function as a
natural extension of nearby public open spaces, while supporting the business located on this segment of Brattle Street. Church Street functions as a natural alternative route to access the remainder of Brattle Street west of Church Street, so the impact on business
this segment of Brattle Street. Church Street functions as a natural alternative route to access the remainder of Brattle Street west of Church Street, so the impact on business access could be relatively limited.
Rapid Flash Beacons (RRFBs) as part of the fourth round of Participatory Budgeting and evaluate the feasibility of installing an RRFB at the intersection of Broadway and Norfolk Street, Budget Director Taha Jennings and Traffic, Parking, and Transportation Director Joseph Barr
beacons. A typical intersection requires two beacons (one on each side of the roadway); for locations with a median (such as the northern portion of Massachusetts Avenue), three beacons are required.
staff will be reviewing locations near schools, parks, and senior centers, as well as the locations noted in the Policy Order on Broadway and Hampshire Street. Staff will work with the Purchasing Agent over the winter to conduct a bidding process, with construction on the next
PB Suggested # of Beacons Cross Street Status
Status Massachusetts Avenue Magoun Street No
No Massachusetts Avenue Gold Star Road No Massachusetts Avenue Day Street
Massachusetts Avenue Gold Star Road No Massachusetts Avenue Day Street Massachusetts Avenue Allen Street
Massachusetts Avenue Day Street Massachusetts Avenue Allen Street Massachusetts Avenue Church Street
Massachusetts Avenue Allen Street Massachusetts Avenue Church Street Massachusetts Avenue
Massachusetts Avenue Church Street Massachusetts Avenue Pearl Street
Massachusetts Avenue Pearl Street Massachusetts Avenue Norfolk Street
Pearl Street Massachusetts Avenue Norfolk Street Brattle Street
Massachusetts Avenue Norfolk Street Brattle Street Brattle Street
Brattle Street Brattle Street Western Avenue
Brattle Street Western Avenue Hews Street
Western Avenue Hews Street No
In response to Awaiting Report Item Number 20-25, which requested that the City work with the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA) to identify the bus stop at the corner of Massachusetts Avenue at Churchill Avenue as serving Matignon High School, Traffic, Parking
Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA) to identify the bus stop at the corner of Massachusetts Avenue at Churchill Avenue as serving Matignon High School, Traffic, Parking & Transportation Director Joseph Barr reports the following:
Based on discussions with MBTA staff, they are open to changing the name of the stop to recognize the proximity to Matignon High School and would recommending making the change at both the inbound stop at Cottage Park Avenue and the outbound stop at Churchill Avenue.
recognize the proximity to Matignon High School and would recommending making the change at both the inbound stop at Cottage Park Avenue and the outbound stop at Churchill Avenue. This name change would be communicated to customers through both audio and visual
employed in the Harvard Square Overlay District and Central Square Overlay District zoning.
will be no more than fifteen (15) such establishments within the District (a maximum of eight (8) of which shall be located in the Ames Street District and a maximum of seven (7) of which shall be located in the portions of the District outside of the Ames Street District) and (iv) it is granted
of which shall be located in the Ames Street District and a maximum of seven (7) of which shall be located in the portions of the District outside of the Ames Street District) and (iv) it is granted a Special Permit, as provided in Section 10.40 and 11.30.
CLEAN VERSION a. The retail use shall be located on a lot that abuts Memorial Drive. b. The principal entrance to the retail use shall be on Memorial Drive.
a. The retail use shall be located on a lot that abuts Memorial Drive. b. The principal entrance to the retail use shall be on Memorial Drive. c. The total Gross Floor Area on the lot devoted to retail uses permitted in this Section 20.86.2
Development Controls) to read as follows: directly onto Massachusetts Avenue shall consist of at least one (1) active non-residential use meeting the following requirements:
playground, or public recreation building), i(2) (museum or non commercial gallery). measured from the Massachusetts Avenue frontage of the building (or the full depth of the building if less than forty (40) feet).
of the adjacent public sidewalk. minimum of 75% of the linear frontage of the building facing Massachusetts Avenue. Individual Store Size.
a. In portions of the included BA-2 Districts north of Porter Square, any separately leased required ground floor non-residential use shall contain no more than 5,000 square feet of
b. In portions of the included BA-2 Districts south of Porter Square, any separately leased required ground floor non-residential use shall contain no more than 2,500 square feet of
residential use of building or for other reasons that are in support of the non-residential use purposes of the Massachusetts Avenue Overlay District. non-residential use the minimum ground floor height shall be fifteen (15) feet measured in the
Overlay District Development Controls) to read as follows: zoning district the following use restrictions and limitations shall apply in the Central Square Overlay District:
District: Massachusetts Avenue and/or Main Street and which is on a lot which shares a common lot line with Massachusetts Avenue or Main Street shall consist of Gross Floor Area devoted to any one
Massachusetts Avenue and/or Main Street and which is on a lot which shares a common lot line with Massachusetts Avenue or Main Street shall consist of Gross Floor Area devoted to any one or combination of uses permitted in the applicable base zoning district [except that such gross
or combination of uses permitted in the applicable base zoning district [except that such gross floor area in buildings abutting Massachusetts Avenue and/or Main Street between Inman and Pleasant Streets on the west and Columbia and Sidney Streets on the east shall be devoted to
floor area in buildings abutting Massachusetts Avenue and/or Main Street between Inman and Pleasant Streets on the west and Columbia and Sidney Streets on the east shall be devoted to one or a combination of the following uses: Residential Uses (Section 4.31); Office and
a. At least eighty (80) percent of the floor elevation of the ground (first) floor shall be at the mean grade of the abutting Massachusetts Avenue and/or Main Street at the property line except that residential uses may be located no higher than four (4) feet above the mean
a. In the Central Square Overlay District, a Dance Hall or Nightclub (Section 4.35g) shall be permitted by right if the principal public entrance or entrances are directly from
permitted by right if the principal public entrance or entrances are directly from Massachusetts Avenue, Prospect Street between Massachusetts Avenue and Bishop Allen Drive, or Main Street, or by Special Permit from the Planning Board in the Business B (BB)
Massachusetts Avenue, Prospect Street between Massachusetts Avenue and Bishop Allen Drive, or Main Street, or by Special Permit from the Planning Board in the Business B (BB) district where the principal public entrance or entrances are on another side street that
district where the principal public entrance or entrances are on another side street that intersects with Massachusetts Avenue if the Board finds that such location will not adversely impact adjacent residential uses, with consideration to hours of operation,
individual bank or financial institution (Section 4.34e) shall occupy more than twenty-five (25) feet of building frontage facing Massachusetts Avenue or Main Street, and no more than thirty percent (30%) of a lot's aggregate building frontage facing one or more public
Various Uses governed by the requirements of Article 17.000 Cambridge Center Mixed Use Development (MXD) District: Kendall Center .....
gross floor area, (iii) there will be no more than fifteen (15) such establishments within the District (a maximum of eight (8) of which shall be located in the Ames Street District and a maximum of seven (7) of which shall be located in the portions of the District outside of the
maximum of seven (7) of which shall be located in the portions of the District outside of the Ames Street District) and (iv) it is granted a Special Permit, as provided in Section 10.40 and (4) Personal Services EstablishmentConsumer service establishment, including but not limited to
uses shall be subject to the following limitations and conditions. a. The retail use shall be located on a lot that abuts Memorial Drive. b. The principal entrance to the retail use shall be on Memorial Drive.
a. The retail use shall be located on a lot that abuts Memorial Drive. b. The principal entrance to the retail use shall be on Memorial Drive. Community Development Department – October 15, 2020
Development Controls) to read as follows: directly onto Massachusetts Avenue shall consist of at least one (1) active non-residential use meeting the following requirements:
playground, or public recreation building), i(2) (museum or non commercial gallery). measured from the Massachusetts Avenue frontage of the building (or the full depth of the building if less than forty (40) feet).
of the adjacent public sidewalk. minimum of 75% of the linear frontage of the building facing Massachusetts Avenue. Individual Store Size.
b. In portions of the included BA-2 Districts north of Porter Square, any separately leased required ground floor non-residential use shall contain no more than 5,000 square feet of
below grade. In portions of the included BA-2 Districts south of Porter Square, any separately leased required ground floor non-residential use shall contain no more than 2,500 square feet of
residential use of building or for other reasons that are in support of the non-residential use purposes of the Massachusetts Avenue Overlay District. non-residential use the minimum ground floor height shall be fifteen (15) feet measured in the
Overlay District Development Controls) to read as follows: zoning district the following use restrictions and limitations shall apply in the Central Square Overlay District:
District: Massachusetts Avenue and/or Main Street and which is on a lot which shares a common lot line with Massachusetts Avenue or Main Street shall consist of Gross Floor Area devoted to any one
Massachusetts Avenue and/or Main Street and which is on a lot which shares a common lot line with Massachusetts Avenue or Main Street shall consist of Gross Floor Area devoted to any one or combination of uses permitted in the applicable base zoning district [except that such gross
or combination of uses permitted in the applicable base zoning district [except that such gross floor area in buildings abutting Massachusetts Avenue and/or Main Street between Inman and Pleasant Streets on the west and Columbia and Sidney Streets on the east shall be devoted to
floor area in buildings abutting Massachusetts Avenue and/or Main Street between Inman and Pleasant Streets on the west and Columbia and Sidney Streets on the east shall be devoted to one or a combination of the following uses: Residential Uses (Section 4.31); Office and
a. At least eighty (80) percent of the floor elevation of the ground (first) floor shall be at the mean grade of the abutting Massachusetts Avenue and/or Main Street at the property line except that residential uses may be located no higher than four (4) feet above the mean
a. In the Central Square Overlay District, a Dance Hall or Nightclubn establishment where alcoholic beverages are consumed and where dancing and entertainment is provided,
MARKUP VERSION principal public entrance or entrances are directly from Massachusetts Avenue, Prospect Street between Massachusetts Avenue and Bishop Allen Drive, or Main Street, or by
principal public entrance or entrances are directly from Massachusetts Avenue, Prospect Street between Massachusetts Avenue and Bishop Allen Drive, or Main Street, or by Special Permit from the Planning Board in the Business B (BB) district where the principal
Special Permit from the Planning Board in the Business B (BB) district where the principal public entrance or entrances are on another side street that intersects with Massachusetts Avenue if the Board finds that such location will not adversely impact adjacent residential
individual bank or financial institution (Section 4.34e) shall occupy more than twenty-five (25) feet of building frontage facing Massachusetts Avenue or Main Street, and no more than thirty percent (30%) of a lot's aggregate building frontage facing one or more public
proposed accessory use does not substantially derogate from the public good. (3) A use accessory to other permitted uses within the Cambridge Center MXD District may be located on other lots in the MXD District.
(3) The area limitations of this paragraph 4.21 g shall be applicable in all zoning districts except the Cambridge Center MXD District; however, if explicitly stated elsewhere in this Ordinance certain accessory uses in specified districts may exceed the foregoing area
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 159 Allston Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material specified by the
Packet Pg. 180 159 Allston Street Client- Geraldine Small and Edward Small
159 Allston Street Client- Geraldine Small and Edward Small Area Schedule (Gross Building)
CLEAN OUT 159 Allston Street Legend
© 2020 Google 159 Allston Street Legend
Packet Pg. 200 159 Allston Street Cambridge Housing Authority- LBJ Apartments
159 Allston Street Cambridge Housing Authority- LBJ Apartments Legend
Perez, Lori Re: 159 Allston Street Curb cut application Curb Cut Allston St.pdf
Re: 159 Allston Street Curb cut application Curb Cut Allston St.pdf Packet Pg. 203
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 10 Acorn Park Drive, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material specified by the
Dear Mr. Niranjan: On behalf of SXC Alewife Hotel, LLC, BSC Group has completed the City of Cambridge’s online application for a curb cut at 10 Acorn Park Drive to service the AC Marriott Hotel.
On behalf of SXC Alewife Hotel, LLC, BSC Group has completed the City of Cambridge’s online application for a curb cut at 10 Acorn Park Drive to service the AC Marriott Hotel. The AC Hotel is located within the Cambridge Discovery Park development and currently
online application for a curb cut at 10 Acorn Park Drive to service the AC Marriott Hotel. The AC Hotel is located within the Cambridge Discovery Park development and currently has access from Discovery Way, a private way, running parallel to Acorn Park Drive.
The AC Hotel is located within the Cambridge Discovery Park development and currently has access from Discovery Way, a private way, running parallel to Acorn Park Drive. The proposed curb cut and driveway have been designed to provide one-way only access
The proposed curb cut and driveway have been designed to provide one-way only access from Acorn Park Drive in accordance with the City of Cambridge requirements and the comments communicated at our site meetings in order to improve site access for hotel guests
and deliveries, and to provide improved emergency vehicle access to the Hotel. Visitors to the Hotel exiting Route 2 via the Alewife Station Access Road currently travel along Acorn Park Drive to Discovery Way in order to access the Hotel. The proposed drive
Visitors to the Hotel exiting Route 2 via the Alewife Station Access Road currently travel along Acorn Park Drive to Discovery Way in order to access the Hotel. The proposed drive will have improved wayfinding and access to the Hotel by providing direct access to the
will have improved wayfinding and access to the Hotel by providing direct access to the Hotel from Acorn Park Drive, including for ambulances, fire trucks and other emergency vehicles.
maintaining signs, the Commissioner of Public Works be and hereby is authorized to grant a permit to Playa Bowls for a projecting sign at the premises numbered 71 Mount Auburn Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Provided that, before erecting the above
grant a permit to Playa Bowls for a projecting sign at the premises numbered 71 Mount Auburn Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Provided that, before erecting the above named projecting sign the petitioner shall file with the City Clerk a bond in the sum of
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 810 Main Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material specified by the
These arguments have also been used for large development projects in requesting special permits to waive the parking It came to my attention that 78 Porter Road, which to my best knowledge is a 100% affordable development, is currently undergoing renovation and is empty. I am writing to urge you to conduct a comprehensive, around the clock parking
undergoing renovation and is empty. I am writing to urge you to conduct a comprehensive, around the clock parking study during different days of a week for Porter Road/Regent Street loop while 78 Porter Road is empty and repeat the study once the renovation is completed and the building is fully occupied to measure the true impact of 100% affordable
flattened by large-scale development interests. Over the years, I have watched the encroachment of bio-labs along Binney Street, and now further encroachments as proposed by MITIMCO for the Volpe site, Alexandria for the Metropolitan Pipe site, and New England Development for the redesign of CambridgeSide. In the East Cambridge
Binney Street, and now further encroachments as proposed by MITIMCO for the Volpe site, Alexandria for the Metropolitan Pipe site, and New England Development for the redesign of CambridgeSide. In the East Cambridge neighborhood itself, I have seen a mid-19th century house be razed for a CVS, a mid-19th century house have its original
Associates (V&A) for the proposed 2072 Mass Ave (2072) 100% affordable housing project (AH project) at the southwest corner of Mass Ave and Walden street (intersection). This is an impressive, well conducted study that was made public in perfect timing to my request for a comprehensive parking study around 78 Porter Road
southwest corner of Mass Ave and Walden street (intersection). This is an impressive, well conducted study that was made public in perfect timing to my request for a comprehensive parking study around 78 Porter Road Apartments (appended below), also an AH project.
The most glaring flaw is that the effects of COVID-19 on parking and traffic were not factored in. I live on Norris Street and the normal, pre-COVID-19, morning rush hour traffic heading into Porter Square and beyond regularly backed up to Norris Street making it very difficult to exit the street to get onto Mass Ave in either
Norris Street and the normal, pre-COVID-19, morning rush hour traffic heading into Porter Square and beyond regularly backed up to Norris Street making it very difficult to exit the street to get onto Mass Ave in either direction. The reverse was true in the evening on the northbound side heading towards Alewife Brook
regularly backed up to Norris Street making it very difficult to exit the street to get onto Mass Ave in either direction. The reverse was true in the evening on the northbound side heading towards Alewife Brook Parkway compounded by two traffic lights separated only by a block at Cameron Ave and Cedar Street
direction. The reverse was true in the evening on the northbound side heading towards Alewife Brook Parkway compounded by two traffic lights separated only by a block at Cameron Ave and Cedar Street intersections. And there were hardly any parking spaces available on Norris Street after 6 PM. But since
Parkway compounded by two traffic lights separated only by a block at Cameron Ave and Cedar Street intersections. And there were hardly any parking spaces available on Norris Street after 6 PM. But since COVID-19 shut-down began, there have been plenty of parking spaces available and I hardly have to wait to
should have considered the road configuration at that intersection and the impact of the project on the traffic flow. Walden Street at the intersection is a 3-lane road; one westbound lane and two eastbound lanes with Packet Pg. 334
well west of the property; and the two turn arrows start just about even with the curb cut into the current Darul property after turning into Walden Street during the rush hour from Mass Ave. trying to cut across two lanes of eastbound traffic waiting to turn left or right onto Mass Ave.
The study should also have counted the current traffic volume at the intersection and counted the number and duration of cars waiting to make turns either onto Mass Ave from Walden Street or vice versa during the peak commuting hours. This could have been done easily by using strategically placed traffic counters. These
impact of the new vehicle traffic. Furthermore, the study should have addressed the issue of bicycle traffic and pedestrian foot traffic at this very busy intersection for people trying to get to Porter Square T station or to their destinations. Finally, the study should have assessed the social issue I mentioned above. When we return to
parking requirements. It came to my attention that 78 Porter Road, which to my best knowledge is a 100% affordable development, is currently undergoing renovation and is empty. I am writing to urge you to conduct a comprehensive, around the clock
currently undergoing renovation and is empty. I am writing to urge you to conduct a comprehensive, around the clock parking study during different days of a week for Porter Road/Regent Street loop while 78 Porter Road is empty and repeat the study once the renovation is completed and the building is fully occupied to measure the true impact of
Packet Pg. 338 It came to my attention that 78 Porter Road, which to my best knowledge is a 100% affordable development, is currently undergoing renovation and is empty. I am writing to urge you to conduct a comprehensive, around the clock parking
undergoing renovation and is empty. I am writing to urge you to conduct a comprehensive, around the clock parking study during different days of a week for Porter Road/Regent Street loop while 78 Porter Road is empty and repeat the study once the renovation is completed and the building is fully occupied to measure the true impact of 100% affordable
Subject: 10 acorn park drive Please find attached a letter from Jim Rafferty in regards to the pending curb cut application for 10 Acorn Park Drive. I have also attached an updated plan, along with supporting correspondences from DPW and the Traffic, Parking and
re: Curb Cut Application 10 Acorn Park Drive Please accept the attached filing as supplemental information related to the above
Councillor Toomey, and Councillor Zondervan: As residents and owners of the property at 12 Sciarappa Street and owners of the property at 31 Winter Street, we are writing to express our support for the
As residents and owners of the property at 12 Sciarappa Street and owners of the property at 31 Winter Street, we are writing to express our support for the East Cambridge Neighborhood Conservation District study. Our family has deep
the property at 31 Winter Street, we are writing to express our support for the East Cambridge Neighborhood Conservation District study. Our family has deep roots in East Cambridge, and our 12 Sciarappa Street home has been in our
East Cambridge Neighborhood Conservation District study. Our family has deep roots in East Cambridge, and our 12 Sciarappa Street home has been in our family since approximately 1917. We value our membership in this diverse and
have been nominated for designation over the years. These areas, including 33rd Street along East Fairmount Park in Strawberry Mansion (included in this thesis as an undesignated neighborhood) and Spruce Hill in West Philadelphia, offer compelling
neighborhoods that have received other form of recognition for historical significance, including through Neighborhood Conservation Districts (e.g. Queen Village), or Main Street programs (e.g. Tacony) could offer additional information, although the limited
DePasquale, Louie; Clerk East Cambridge Neighborhood Conservation District Study As a life long resident in my home at 49 Gore Street, I wholeheartedly support the East Cambridge Neighborhood
East Cambridge Neighborhood Conservation District Study As a life long resident in my home at 49 Gore Street, I wholeheartedly support the East Cambridge Neighborhood Conservation District Study. My house was built in 1820 and, as you may already know, is in the National Register of
City Council; Clerk Support for Curb Cut at Cambridge Brands Dear Cambridge City Council members -- Cambridge Brands at 810 Main Street requested support
Support for Curb Cut at Cambridge Brands Dear Cambridge City Council members -- Cambridge Brands at 810 Main Street requested support for a curb cut from Essex Street Neighbors of which I am a Board member and former President. I
Dear Cambridge City Council members -- Cambridge Brands at 810 Main Street requested support for a curb cut from Essex Street Neighbors of which I am a Board member and former President. I forwarded the request to our members and asked that if anyone objected they should let me know.
forwarded the request to our members and asked that if anyone objected they should let me know. There were no objections to this curb cut at 810 Main Street. We appreciate the notice and request. Nancy Ryan / she/her
Good Afternoon; The Essex Street Neighbors were provided the attached notice regarding a curb cut request for Cambridge Brands Inc. (810 Main Street, the Tootsie Roll Confectionery Plant )I am reaching out to
The Essex Street Neighbors were provided the attached notice regarding a curb cut request for Cambridge Brands Inc. (810 Main Street, the Tootsie Roll Confectionery Plant )I am reaching out to you to support Cambridge Brands’ going before the Cambridge City Council to request a curb cut
Cambridge Brands Inc. (810 Main Street, the Tootsie Roll Confectionery Plant )I am reaching out to you to support Cambridge Brands’ going before the Cambridge City Council to request a curb cut modifications.
up-zoning will have to their property. I assume that it would be more than enough to pay for a bridge, the much needed reconstruction of Smith Place, a linear path along the rail corridor at the northern edge of their property as called for in the Alewife Plan, Blair
for a bridge, the much needed reconstruction of Smith Place, a linear path along the rail corridor at the northern edge of their property as called for in the Alewife Plan, Blair Pond mitigation, a new fire station, and/or anything else the City desires at that location.
contemplates not only buffering the neighborhood with robust landscaping, but also with locating non-active residential uses nearest the Highland neighborhood (as opposed to more active commercial uses, which are targeted further east towards Smith Place).
locating non-active residential uses nearest the Highland neighborhood (as opposed to more active commercial uses, which are targeted further east towards Smith Place). Through its reference to Section 20.95.2(1)(a) of the current zoning ordinance, the Petition
The diagram below is a closer view of the increased no-build zone from the residential district closest to Loomis Street. Please note that the townhomes along Loomis Street were not built in the residential district, and so the proposed no-build zone intersects with those
effect of the proposed development as a whole. Below is a conceptual diagram of how the Mooney Street special permit proposal could propose to implement screening and a landscaping buffer for the Loomis Street townhouses. Please note this diagram assumes that
Mooney Street special permit proposal could propose to implement screening and a landscaping buffer for the Loomis Street townhouses. Please note this diagram assumes that the 50’ no-build zone is implemented, as requested by the Highlands.
buildings at or above the 2070, 10-year storm-surge/sea level rise elevation, which in the case of Mooney Street is approximately 4’ above existing grade in some locations. So that proponents are incentivized to utilize these best practices (and are not penalized as a result
FW: Cambridge Brands Curb Cut request Follow up with Neighborhood associations Dear Cambridge City Council Members; Cambridge Brands at 810 Main Street attempted to follow-up with the Area Neighborhood
Dear Cambridge City Council Members; Cambridge Brands at 810 Main Street attempted to follow-up with the Area Neighborhood Association and have received the following responses:
• Area4 Neighborhood Association(See email Correspondence below) • Essex Street Neighbors responded via email without objection We hope you respond favorably to our curb cut request and recognize that we made good
Somerville MA (having grown up on Otis Street, East Cambridge MA) gâté comme des filles
10/19/2020 City Council Meeting – Public Comments Nicola Williams, 8 Brewer Street I fully Support P.O. 231 - As an immigrant, I can appreciate and relate to these issues to call
businesses in Residential C retiring variances for just about any use other than the one that is in there. This means that most of Huron Avenue, Western Avenue, and Cambridge Street west of Inman Square businesses would still need to seek variances in many instances
is in there. This means that most of Huron Avenue, Western Avenue, and Cambridge Street west of Inman Square businesses would still need to seek variances in many instances which will accelerate the conversion of those neighborhood businesses into solely
for, Claude-Alix's leadership and service. The Public health of all Cambridge's residents are well looked after by Claude-Alix and his team at Windsor Street"; now therefore be it
COUNCILLOR SOBRINHO-WHEELER WHEREAS: Vincent Albergo resided in Cambridge, Massachusetts for his entire 75 years, 45 of those years on Kinnaird Street in the Riverside neighborhood; and
WHEREAS: Vincent Albergo resided in Cambridge, Massachusetts for his entire 75 years, 45 of those years on Kinnaird Street in the Riverside neighborhood; and WHEREAS: Vincent was the beloved husband of Dottie (Reale) Albergo; and
those years on Kinnaird Street in the Riverside neighborhood; and WHEREAS: Vincent was the beloved husband of Dottie (Reale) Albergo; and WHEREAS: Vincent was much loved by his children Christopher Albergo (Pam Landry),
ORDERED: Eversource has recently contacted Cambridge residents and commercial abutters about upgrades to a substation on Wheeler Street and to a facility owned by the energy
Eversource has recently contacted Cambridge residents and commercial abutters about upgrades to a substation on Wheeler Street and to a facility owned by the energy company on New Street; and
upgrades to a substation on Wheeler Street and to a facility owned by the energy company on New Street; and Eversource should seek to answer questions including what steps are being taken to
requirements are waived. This is adding another piece to that exemption. He said that it is similar to the provision that exists in Harvard and Central Squares which effectively says that if you have an existing building that is in place and a use moved out of the building and a new use moves into the building, that
Complaints tend to be not at the inception of something. She said that over time, the neighbors tend to complain about too much noise from a business or odors. One example was on Prospect Street where there used to be a retail bakery/café. There was a desire to put in a coffee roastery and people were
realistic about retail needs. What do specific neighborhoods need, what do they ask for in district zoning? He said that he remembers when Dunkin Donuts wanted to come between Harvard and Porter Square when there were eleven other locations within two miles, and the neighborhood fought against it. Want to
He said that it seems that there are other ways to regulate problems that will arise with accessory uses. Re: Hampshire Street, it is not in a business zone and there are a lot of small, commercial spaces with a Packet Pg. 618
Cambridge. City Hall was lit up red from Tuesday, October 13th through Friday, October 16th. I have also separately filed resolutions on this with the City Council as well as the School Committee. Cambridge City Hall | 795 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139
have also separately filed resolutions on this with the City Council as well as the School Committee. Cambridge City Hall | 795 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139 ssiddiqui@cambridgema.gov│617-349-4321│tty: 617-492-0235│cambridgema.gov
Sumbul Siddiqui Cambridge City Hall | 795 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139 ssiddiqui@cambridgema.gov│617-349-4321│tty: 617-492-0235│cambridgema.gov
