PB-368 -- Volpe PUD 9 PB-319 -- 605 Concord Avenue – Extension 74 P R O C E E D I N G S
Eversource electrical substation in a different location than where it's currently anticipated on Fulkerson Street. So that's a hearing that will be at the Ordinance
did open it early, in April 2019, at a terrific location in the Port at 792 Main Street. The Job Connector is a free workforce development hub for Cambridge residents, where we
the Port at 792 Main Street. The Job Connector is a free workforce development hub for Cambridge residents, where we provide a variety of job readiness and career preparedness
From the top left, you can see Shy Bird restaurant at One Broadway, new retail along Broad Canal Way, the graduate student housing building in the heart of Kendall,
the future MBTA head house, the MIT museum right next to the T, a rendering of 165 Main Street, which will include 300 new residential units.
First is the height of the project. As you'll see, north of Monroe Street moving towards Binney Street towards the neighborhood, it's a lower height regime.
not a surprise. It comes from all that planning work, focuses on frontages along Broadway and Third, and requires smaller retail locations which are also independent and
excitement about -- far more than what is required has been spent to open up that space on Main Street in the Port. $36 million in required linkage approximately, and then $8.5
up a super block by extending the grid of city streets through the site; Fifth Street extending north to Binney Street and south to Broadway; Potter Street and Broad Canal
through the site; Fifth Street extending north to Binney Street and south to Broadway; Potter Street and Broad Canal Way extending west to Lowry Way.
parking spaces, almost all of which will be below grade, with access on Broadway, Potter Street and Munroe Street. 318 of these parking spaces will be used by the
valuable parcel, but this is the option that best connects the park space to public ways -- to Broadway and to Third Street. It is the gateway site into Kendall Square, and it
Third Street Park, you'll see in the lower right- hand corner, is truly civic space, connected by Broad Canal Way and by Wadsworth Street to the Charles River in two
hand corner, is truly civic space, connected by Broad Canal Way and by Wadsworth Street to the Charles River in two different directions.
bowl of people, events and activity. The intersection of Fifth and Broadway is the crossroads at the center of the site, with four corners of
The Fifth Street promenade is the new direct connection from Binney to Broadway. This view is looking west on Potter, with 303
expanded with the new park space; Fifth Street completed from Binney Street to Broadway with a wide sidewalk and promenade; Broad Canal way building in excess East of Third
from Binney Street to Broadway with a wide sidewalk and promenade; Broad Canal way building in excess East of Third Street and now traveling all the way past the community
And, importantly, a big diagonal that connects Binney Street and the USDOT site directly with the corner of Third and Broadway. Good site lines, lots of permeability,
And you get the benefit at the intersection of Third and Broadway of not only the acre of land that is part of this parcel, but you get the benefit of Third Street and
just on the Volpe site, the Volpe shares on the Sixth Street walkway, it shares across Broadway and Third Street, and the Fifth Street connector, and it shares with the 303 Third
Design team has interacted with us and listened to us, and the Third Street Park on the corner of Third and Broadway will be a sun-filled and beautiful space for East Cambridge.
the Third Street Park on the corner of Third and Broadway will be a sun-filled and beautiful space for East Cambridge. I did -- you know, I understand that Gary's
TY BELITTI: Excellent. My name is Ty Belitti. I live at 22 Bigelow Street in Cambridge. And I'm calling in support of the Volpe project. I am the Vice-President of My
HEATHER HOFFMAN: [Laughter] Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street. And I am going to use my three minutes to speak about the things that I hope you will keep in mind,
request for an extension of time for Special Permit case PB -319 for the development at 605 Concord Avenue. Again, we will start with CDD Staff summarizing why this is before us.
Community Development Staff. So the developer for 605 Concord Avenue has requested an extension for an additional year to the special permit. They're very close to getting
COVID-19 crisis. The -- we also have two other projects under construction; one at the St. James Church at 1991 Mass Ave, and also at 77 New Street in Cambridge. So both of
under construction; one at the St. James Church at 1991 Mass Ave, and also at 77 New Street in Cambridge. So both of those projects experienced a shutdown for what ended up
better for us to kind of chew and swallow what we've already started at St. James Church and at 77 New Street before we embark on construction of 605 Concord.
broadly 40:2 Broadway 15:15 Brother's 16:8
