October 13, that's next week. We have a public hearing scheduled on a case at 56 Creighton Street in Cambridge. This is a case that -- a site that previously had a special
It's anchored by open space. It's anchored by the Charles Park on the south and Canal Park on the north. It's three levels of retail, which wasn't done 25 years ago.
neighborhood, and put more front doors on First Street and on Cambridgeside Place and even wrapping the corner on to Land Boulevard: Create a more authentic urban block.
on Cambridgeside Place and even wrapping the corner on to Land Boulevard: Create a more authentic urban block. If you look at the diagram on the right, we will
Buy Lechmere building -- again retail at the base wrapping the corner onto Cambridgeside Place, with office and lab above.
street. And then again step backs at 135 feet in the middle building and the building at the corner of Cambridgeside Place. This affords more daylight to the street, and widens
welcoming -- to actually do what it was intended to do, which is to be a gateway to Canal Park beyond to the waterfront to the Charles River. And how do we do that?
which is to be a gateway to Canal Park beyond to the waterfront to the Charles River. And how do we do that? Some of it's architecture. A lot of it's use by
the connection to the Charles River. We plan improvements -- next, please? -- on Canal Park.
Park. Canal Park will have new furniture, will have new paving, will have new boardwalk and lighting, making it feel
safer, more welcoming, more activating. You all know -- next -- the Land Boulevard Bridge today. It's really kind of dark and dreary, and frankly
entire area. It can be public art. It can change over time and it can make it a place -- Canal Park -- the walkway under the Land Boulevard Bridge; all of these spaces feel
and it can make it a place -- Canal Park -- the walkway under the Land Boulevard Bridge; all of these spaces feel safer, more welcoming, more secure.
the First phase with 60 First Street, is on the Macy's site. And long view -- obviously looking north on Land Boulevard - - and again, you can see the metrics of what we are
Next? Land Boulevard -- a long view of Land Boulevard, looking south. And again, you can see 20 Cambridgeside in
Land Boulevard -- a long view of Land Boulevard, looking south. And again, you can see 20 Cambridgeside in the context of existing hotel in the foreground, the bridge
Street, which is the building at the corner of First and Cambridgeside Place, and 20 Cambridgeside, which is on the Macy's site.
And then from -- looking north on first from Rogers Street with the Lotus building -- the former Lotus building -- on your right, and 110 First, 80 and 90 and 60
between the building. And then another model shot looking over Canal Park -- you can go to the next one -- and this is obviously
And then another model shot looking over Canal Park -- you can go to the next one -- and this is obviously a view from the north.
the most important being the separation of storm and sewer on Land Boulevard that will improve drainage and stormwater measures, and protect the environment and streetscape -- the
And then finally, all of our landscape improvements in Canal Park create the kind of cooling oasis that reduces heat island effect in the city, and will
And those big ideas of transforming First Street, Canal Park, a sustainable design and mixing uses, affordable units, a community benefit package that we could all be very
ALFRED FANTINI: Yes. My name is Alfred Fantini. I live at 4 Canal Park, Unit 203. I'm speaking in support of the Cambridgeside 2.0 application.
I live at 4 Canal Park, Unit 203. I'm speaking in support of the Cambridgeside 2.0 application. As an abutter and as someone who has watched the
CHRISTOPHER SCHMIDT: Thanks. Christopher Schmidt, 17 Laurel Street. I just wanted to say that I saw this presentation at East Cambridge Planning Team a couple
Schmidt, 17 Laurel Street. I just wanted to say that I saw this presentation at East Cambridge Planning Team a couple weeks ago and counter to my expectations, I was actually
address, please? TANYA HAYES LEE: 38 Linnaean Street in Cambridge. JEFF ROBERTS: Thank you. The next speaker is
FABRIZIO GENTILI: Hello, Fabrizio Gentili from 72 Sciarappa Street, so a few blocks away from the development. I want to speak in favor. Can you hear me?
name and address. GEORGE SUMMER: Okay. My name is George Summer, and I live at 29 Otis Street, Apartment F 208. And I want
GEORGE SUMMER: Okay. My name is George Summer, and I live at 29 Otis Street, Apartment F 208. And I want to go on record at this Planning Board hearing as being in
barren areas being brought to life by a new development. And I want to see New England Development do for First Street what Alexandria has done for Binney Street.
And I want to see New England Development do for First Street what Alexandria has done for Binney Street. And one concern I have with the initial design was
And although I live here now, I used to live on Spring Street within a block of the Mall, moving from apartment to apartment in East Cambridge to try to stay
Spring Street within a block of the Mall, moving from apartment to apartment in East Cambridge to try to stay someplace affordable.
planned improvements along First Street will be a big benefit. I live at 10 Rogers Street. I don't own a car, so I'm regularly walking from
Michael Doucette. HEATHER HOFFMAN: Hi, Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street. I will agree with people that there are many, many
Street. I will agree with people that there are many, many good things about this. The improvements to Canal Park -- that crushed stone has long since become a barrier to water,
are not good neighbors. The improvements to the Land Boulevard Bridge: I guess that I must be strange, but I've never had a problem
something that probably can get fixed in the resubmittal. Now, there are 10 bays of windows facing Land Boulevard that back up to the loading dock. And there seems
the retail, and I think it will definitely enliven First Street, and to an extent Land Boulevard. I have absolutely no problem whatsoever with the
do to save it I think is important. I think it's certainly important that from Cambridgeside Place there's some wonderful entrance into the interior.
You know, the Foundry's a couple blocks away, the Athenaeum's several blocks away. The buildings on Land Boulevard, the buildings now on First Street, you know, are
Because there aren't a lot of people who walk on Land Boulevard right now, and I think it would be great if there was a reason for them to go there and say, "Hey, look
Thank you. I have to agree with Ted on one thing: The original rendition of the building on Land Boulevard was gorgeous with the sweeping sides, but you needed to change
