PAGE 5 May 4, 2020 5. A communication was received from Sheli Wortis, 106 Berkshire Street, regarding support for Policy
May 4, 2020 5. A communication was received from Sheli Wortis, 106 Berkshire Street, regarding support for Policy Orders 1 and 2 and Calendar item 4 that will protect the health and welfare of the citizens if enacted.
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
(Calendar Item #5) from 10/7/2019 Central Square Library branch. Vice Mayor Mallon, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (Calendar Item #8)
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Report on the potential for implementing sufficient traffic-calming solutions on Upton Street. Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (O-7) from 1/27/2020
Councillor Simmons, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Carlone (O-1) from Report on working with the residents in the vicinity of Eustis Street to implement traffic calming measures on this street.
Requirements (a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, or (b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street
(a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, or (b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound.
(b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities are proposed to be Permanent Separated Bicycle
detailing why the extension was necessary by no later than May 1, 2025. D. By no later than May 1, 2022, the City Manager shall complete the installation of continuous Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between
D. By no later than May 1, 2022, the City Manager shall complete the installation of continuous Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting:
Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street;
Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street.
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along Massachusetts Avenue other than (a),
(d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along Massachusetts Avenue other than (a), (b), (c) and (d) are proposed to be Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes, the requirements of
Facilities has commenced prior to the deadline established by this Subsection D, provided, however, that if Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes are to be installed along Massachusetts Avenue from Sydney Street to Inman Street, the requirements of this Subsection D shall be
however, that if Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes are to be installed along Massachusetts Avenue from Sydney Street to Inman Street, the requirements of this Subsection D shall be satisfied so long as the design of such Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes has commenced
block analysis determining the impacts of installing Quick-Build Separated Bicycle Lanes on: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street.
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If, after a review of the analysis, the City Manager determines that Quick-Build Separated
Lane of Adequate Directionality along (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Packet Pg. 46 (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street,
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street, within one year of the City Manager’s submission to the City Council of an analysis of the
Directionality on such blocks within three years of the submission of the impacts analysis. F. Any Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along segment (a) of Subsection E, Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street, must also be separated from Public
F. Any Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along segment (a) of Subsection E, Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street, must also be separated from Public Transportation for the full stretch of that segment.
Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along: (a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, (b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street,
(a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, (b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street, (c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and
(b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street, (c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and (d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street
(c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and (d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound,
(d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound, provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord
from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound, provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord Avenue to the segment of Concord Avenue contiguous to Follen Street shall be improved to
provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord Avenue to the segment of Concord Avenue contiguous to Follen Street shall be improved to meet the needs of users of all ages and abilities.
order, it's necessary to keep us and all the essential workers in the City safe. Thank you. Mary McDavitt 90 Amory Street, #2 Cambridge, MA 02139 Packet Pg. 100
Respectfully submitted: Stephen Hantman 6 Newport Road Cambridge (This is a copy of an email sent to all Cambridge City Councilors and the City Manager today)
Stephen Hantman 6 Newport Road Cambridge (This is a copy of an email sent to all Cambridge City Councilors and the City Manager today) Packet Pg. 110
What I don’t understand is how any part of this order might actually be enforced. Today my husband was in Central Square picking up a package that had been delivered by UPS and left at Star Variety. He said the little convenience store had a lot of customers in a small space and almost no
RE: Support for current order of mandatory masks I still support the current order as it stands. Just take a walk by the Gore Street Park and you'll see 5 or 6 young people gathered together without any face coverings, soccer ball in hand. Walk down one of our streets, most of which do not
I am writing to support the Manager's mask mandate remain in effect as is, in opposition to policy 10. We are a family who live in West Cambridge close to Memorial Drive. Before the mandate we witnessed a majority of bikers and joggers not wearing masks - and in some instances, not
Please align Cambridge mask policy with state policy. Andrew Groh Columbia Street
Andrew Groh Columbia Street Packet Pg. 131
It was strikingly consistent during once weekly errand trips over a period of three weeks to note the open flaunting of the construction closure by MIT in its project on Binney Street in Kendall Square on the former U.S. Department of Transportation property. MIT very clearly considered itself exempt from requirements for normal responsible behavior. MIT was the only construction activity
I noted. Of interest, Harvard has delayed its opening of a project on Western Avenue in Allston for a semester because Harvard obeyed the Perez, Lori
Everyone can find something to cover their face with. Yes, more education and free masks are in order. It was very safe last week to go out in my neighborhood and walk from Harvard to Porter Squares because practically everyone was wearing some type of face covering. Even
in order. It was very safe last week to go out in my neighborhood and walk from Harvard to Porter Squares because practically everyone was wearing some type of face covering. Even residents in my building were wearing face coverings in our one elevator and in the hallways.
Everyone can find something to cover their face with. Yes, more education and free masks are in order. It was very safe last week to go out in my neighborhood and walk from Harvard to Porter Squares because practically everyone was wearing some type of face covering. Even
are in order. It was very safe last week to go out in my neighborhood and walk from Harvard to Porter Squares because practically everyone was wearing some type of face covering. Even residents in my building were wearing face coverings in our one elevator and in the hallways.
a devastating impact on our local business community; and In a District Impact Study conducted by the Central Square Business Improvement District, 96% of businesses surveyed reported being affected by the COVID-19
