Adoption of Planning Board Meeting Transcripts 9 PB# 367 -- 325 Binney Street 11 Public Hearings
General Business PB# 330 -- 55 Wheeler Street — Design Update 111 P R O C E E D I N G S
received for a special permit that was granted at 605 Concord Avenue. November 3, as I've noted, that is Election Day,
by ARE Mass Region #61, LLC to construct a 370,462 gross square foot technical office building at 325 Binney Street, pursuant to Section #19.20 Project Review Special permit and
Madam Chair. For the record, my name is James Rafferty. I'm an attorney with offices located at 907 Massachusetts Avenue. I'm appearing this evening on behalf of Alexander
land necessary to extend the Grand Junction Pathway from Binney Street to Cambridge Street, and Michelle Lauer will show you the layout of that land and Alexandria's efforts to
And the third item of commitment is a commitment to purchase land currently owned by Eversource on Fulkerson Street, that has been the source of much focus since
One is a commitment to purchase the land on Fulkerson Street from Eversource at a price of $12.9 million dollars, which is what Eversource paid for the land.
You can see here the section in the foreground is Cambridge Street that stretches to Binney Street in the top of the page. And this is the -- this was an 1800 linear
We'll move onto the next slide. My favorite little building here, 686 Cambridge Street. You can see the Loyal 9 Café over in the left-hand
pathway. But this really is a gateway for Cambridge Street into the Multi-use Path, into Kendall Square. And really
Multi-use Pathway direct straight line to Kendall Square from Cambridge Street. So with that, I will -- we can go to the next
This first view looking north from the inner section of Broadway and Galileo Way speaks to the central energy of the south façade massing, where we have located an
The building negotiates this shift in the grid by bending and aligning with the little Binney Street grid to the west, and the main Binney Street grid to the east.
bending and aligning with the little Binney Street grid to the west, and the main Binney Street grid to the east. We use this maneuver to open up the building
Next slide? So as you pull back here on Binney Street, you will notice we're really dealing with very specifically with
So the site design here, that shows a comparison actually of that corner plaza space at Binney Street and Fulkerson, compared to the Fulkerson entrance.
actually of that corner plaza space at Binney Street and Fulkerson, compared to the Fulkerson entrance. So the Binney Street plaza is actually intended to
Fulkerson, compared to the Fulkerson entrance. So the Binney Street plaza is actually intended to be more active. It provides a very safe kind of space for
kind of fulcrum point between the relationship towards One Kendall Square and then back towards Binney Street as well. And then as I move around, you can see how the
detail, the track and loading access is proposed on Fulkerson Street to line up with the city's truck crowds and to not impact any truck-restricted roadways.
to a few more items on this list, item 3 being the design of Little Binney Street with areas setting back the building by over 20 feet to allow for installation of sidewalks,
DANNIE WANG: Oh, yes, sorry. My name is Dannie Wang. I live on Fulkerson Street, #71. A really interesting presentation, thank you so much for sharing and
The concurrent conveyance of the 1800 linear feet of the Grand Junction Multi-use Pathway from Binney to Cambridge Street, with their contribution to -- for its
of the Grand Junction Multi-use Pathway from Binney to Cambridge Street, with their contribution to -- for its design and construction is essential to the connectivity and
PAMELA VAN DORT: Good evening. This is Pamela Van Dort at 13 Cornelius Way. Can you hear me, Jeff? JEFF ROBERTS: Yes, we can hear you.
DENNIS CARLONE: Hi. Thank you, Jeff. This is Dennis Carlone, 9 Washington Avenue in Cambridge. I'm also the co-Chair of the Ordinance Committee at the Council.
RACHEL BURKHARDT: Good evening. This is Rachal Burkhardt, 1429 Cambridge Street in Cambridge. Can you hear me?
JASON STOCKMANN: Thank you. This is Jason Stockmann from 7 Cornelius Way in Linden Park. I'd like to speak in support of the application. The first reason is
you can unmute yourself and start. Thanks. JIM GRAY: Jim Gray, 2 Michael Way. Can I be heard now?
HEATHER HOFFMAN: Hello. Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street. And most of what I'm going to say is going to have very laudatory, in keeping with the tone of the
had two big lights on poles aimed so as to blind drivers on Binney Street. If those are still there, I hope that they will
Charles Hinds. You can begin. CHARLES HINDS: Hi. My name is Charles Hinds. I live at 207 Charles Street, East Cambridge. I'm the current
CHARLES HINDS: Hi. My name is Charles Hinds. I live at 207 Charles Street, East Cambridge. I'm the current President of the East Cambridge Planning Team and I'm here
live at 207 Charles Street, East Cambridge. I'm the current President of the East Cambridge Planning Team and I'm here to speak on behalf.
neighborhood really liked; the stepped heights, where the building heights start at 95 feet at Binney Street stepped down to 60, and then to 45 in the residential neighborhood.
like a transitional building. The building setback on Binney Street, a 25-foot, creates room for pedestrians, a bike raceway, small tree
open space being designed as an urban meadow in the pocket park planned on Fulkerson Street adds a secondary entrance. The sustainability design includes 80 geothermal
here at this location. We do have -- we have relocated the bike room to the Binney Street side of the building, so that we believe that will bring some great activity to the
this, because they matched it perfectly. So that will be integrated into the Fulkerson Street façades, as I was talking about, as well as in the
There is now opportunity to take a left onto Binney Street and to access clients on the east side. And we did, you know, worked with Traffic and Parking, and Little
sense, and it's intended. We've only -- at the moment we only have a limited bit of frontage onto Fulkerson Street. But that's intended to become a point of
challenges. It's not going to be a gated space in Fulkerson Street. The idea is you could walk into it, and the public
And the other -- one of Erik's suggestions is that the building come out closer to the paved areas of Binney Street. And that I would disagree with. I think having the
But yeah, like I said there are a few locations; the Fulkerson Street entrance, the corner; they look like they could use some substantial shade trees.
I don't know how much you want to geek out on species, but maybe a yellowwood and or two in that Fulkerson Street plaza; they're a smaller tree, or a medium-size tree,
LOUIS J. BACCI, JR.: How about a sycamore, considering there's a lot of them on Binney Street? ROBERT ADAMS: Yeah, the London plane sycamores
LOUIS J. BACCI, JR.: Yeah. My thought was instead of a single line down Fulkerson Street of all the same species, you might be able to break that up in the
For the development of the Grand Junction Pathway between Binney Street and Cambridge Street. And we've heard tonight that there is an agreement in place to do that.
to propose that we take a five-minute break. And so, it's about 55 Wheeler Street. [BREAK]
PB#330, which is a previously granted special permit for a residential development at 55 Wheeler Street. And Erik Thorkildsen is going to begin by explaining why this is
Manager with Toll Brothers Apartment Living, the new owners of 55 Wheeler Street. I'll be presenting a portion of our documents
That I think is why Erik and members of CDD wanted us to come in front of you today, including the Wheeler Street and Fawcett Street improvements, to be deeded to the
us to come in front of you today, including the Wheeler Street and Fawcett Street improvements, to be deeded to the city at the end of the project, as well as some landscaping
So this is Building A, which is the first building as you come in off Wheeler Street. It's next to the Reservoir Lofts. It has clapboard siding -- the artisan
as you come in off Wheeler Street. It's next to the Reservoir Lofts. It has clapboard siding -- the artisan clapboard siding on it. Toll Brothers has a national buying
Next slide, Swaathi? Then this is Building Be on Wheeler Street. So this is really the next façade down -- excuse me for not
Building A. This is Building B on Wheeler Street; this is the façade that bends in away from the street. So a similar
MICHAEL LEDOUXZ: Yeah, thanks. You got it perfectly. Michael Ledoux, 31 Wheeler Street. I have the luxury of overlooking the excavation behind me here from 31
luxury of overlooking the excavation behind me here from 31 Wheeler Street on the third floor, and we definitely feel the vibrations just of the trucks. So I'm not looking
The other point is drainage. You know, we have -- at 31, at Wheeler Street here, reservoir loss. When this building was first made, they started having flooding
bringing 114:16 Broadway 22:3 bronze 124:6
