Adoption of Planning Board meeting transcripts 5 PB# 288 - 40 Thorndike Street 5 General Business
agenda includes a public hearing on an amendment to the Planning Board special permit for 40 Thorndike Street. This is a little courthouse renovation.
will be coming to the Board for that public hearing. We will have a hearing on 34-36 Hampshire Street, special permit.
And we'll also have a BZA case at that time, and case or cases as well as an extension request for 51 New Street.
we'll be opening the public hearing on the Planning Board special permit 288, 40 Thorndike Street. Are you going to kick us off, Mr. Rafferty?
Chair, members of the Board. For the record, my name is James Rafferty. I'm an attorney with offices located at 907 Massachusetts Avenue in Cambridge.
James Rafferty. I'm an attorney with offices located at 907 Massachusetts Avenue in Cambridge. I'm appearing this evening along with my Co-
extensive. We actually had an office at 357 Cambridge Street, which was really amazing because I think it -- it gave us an
of the development of open space, publicly accessible open space on Spring Street, and the redevelopment of public realm all the way around the building, and correspondingly,
This is retail space to the south, but you can see the amount of topography between Spring Street and Third. We had originally, and still do, identified the
surrounding residential neighborhood. Going around to the south side, the Spring Street side, you'll remember all of the public realm development of
THE REPORTER: You need to spell your name, Rich. RICHARD VENDETTI: Richard Vendetti, R-i-c-h-a-r-d V-e-n-d-e-t-t-i, 44 Winter Street, East Cambridge. I'm in
RICHARD VENDETTI: Richard Vendetti, R-i-c-h-a-r-d V-e-n-d-e-t-t-i, 44 Winter Street, East Cambridge. I'm in full support of this here. It's a long time coming. I've
Doran, Mary M-a-r-y, space, E-l-l-e-n Doran, D-o-r-a-n, 48 Spring Street. I live across the street from the courthouse. I welcome the 48 families that will be moving
ILAN LEVY: Hi, Ilan Levy, I-l-a-n L-e-v-y, 148 Spring Street. I'm coming because this is too good of an opportunity to think about the utility of the Planning
DAN EISNER: Hi, Dan Eisner, E-i-s-n-e-r. Street address 6 Bristol Street. You know, I sort of entered into this fight just about a year ago. There are lots of people
able to get into the resident bike room, and that door is on Second Street, up near the corner of Thorndike Street. So you could --
brings 7:21 Bristol 35:18 Broadway 1:6
Bristol 35:18 Broadway 1:6 brought 12:18
