manager's contract extension, and she opened the floor to public comment. Samuel Gebru, 812 Memorial Drive, spoke in support of the city manager’s contract renewal. He has worked with Mr. DePasquale in various capacities throughout the years and really thoroughly enjoyed the
that exists in the government, remove the city manager, and bring democracy back to the city. Judy Johnson, 55 Antrim Street in Cambridge, stated that the city manager's whole term has been to garner more power and control for his position and to diminish the role of the city council. The city
July 20, 2020 Hector Acevedo, 125 Portland Street, stated that he supports extending the contract of the city manager. He stated that Mr. DePasquale is very active in the community, working with non-profits and supporting
community organizations. He stated that no one loves the city more than Mr. DePasquale. Henry Wortis, 106 Berkshire Street in Cambridge, stated that the City Council should select a manager with the best strategy to achieve these goals. He stated that allowing the requested extension is a good
idea because it will give the council time to formulate a process to select the next City Manager. Louise Parker, 1 Warwick Park, has many concerns about Mr. DePasquale’s job performance. She said she is most concerned with the manager's refusal to conduct a broadband feasibility study, requests for
national City Manager search. Christopher Schmidt, 17 Laurel Street in Cambridge, Massachusetts, said that he has been surprised by the lack of visibility into the city manager’s responsiveness to city council policy orders, priorities,
He stated that, nevertheless, changing the city manager during the pandemic is not the best path. Lee Farris, 269 Norfolk Street, president of the Cambridge Residents Alliance, asked that the council extend the manager’s contract for one year only. She asked that the Council decide on a process to
certain policy orders. Theresa Hamacher, 95 Raymond Street, supports extending the city manager’s contract by just one year, in order to conduct a search. She encouraged the council to re-examine the duties and responsibilities of
the City Manager position. Jennifer Lin, 32 Oakland Street, encouraged the Council to revise how the city considers the city manager. She is concerned to find that some policy orders and legal requirements were not being met by
an important official should remain unelected. Ilan Levy, 148 Spring Street, spoke in support of changing the city government to remove the unelected city manager, and to create an elected leadership position.
city manager, and to create an elected leadership position. Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street, encouraged the council to select a new city manager. At most, she supports extending the current contract for one year.
what the city needs. Kit Haines, 6 Florence Street in Cambridge, asked the council not to extend this contract. She stated that she is very disappointed by not being allowed to leave the house. Not the City Manager’s job to determine
if shared streets are safe, but to implement the city council's vote. Teni Lavoie, 20 Locust Street, spoke in support renewing the existing contract. Always felt the Mr. DePasquale listened and never made decisions in a vacuum.
