Board of Zoning Appeal Cases BZA# 017247-2020 – 16-18 Forest Street PAGE
postponed that have not been heard yet; another cannabis retail store case on Mt Auburn Street, and a proposal for hotel development in Central Square, 727 Mass Ave.
retail store case on Mt Auburn Street, and a proposal for hotel development in Central Square, 727 Mass Ave. We don't have any items scheduled for July 28, and
PETER QUINN: For the record, my name is Peter Quinn of Peter Quinn Architects in Davis Square, 259 Elm Street in Somerville. Yeah, we came before you quite a
simply to enclose the ramp and to create the new entrance on Winthrop Street, which has been a wish of many folks in the neighborhood and in the associations, and the city, and
big openings there, but that's not really our building. On Winthrop Street, the addition of the projected canopy over the entrance seems fine. The applicant could
HEATHER HOFFMAN: Hello, Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street. JEFF ROBERTS: Thanks, Heather.
address, please? JAMES WILLIAMSON: Yes. My name is James Williamson, and my address is 1000 Jackson Place in
JAMES WILLIAMSON: Yes. My name is James Williamson, and my address is 1000 Jackson Place in Cambridge.
In terms of the new entry ramp and entry on Winthrop Street, I'm fine with those changes. So that's my comments.
The photo here is of Will Gilson of Puritan on Cambridge Street, what would be opening a new restaurant on Parcel W in Cambridge Crossing.
Cambridge Street, what would be opening a new restaurant on Parcel W in Cambridge Crossing. In addition, we also hold weekly artist talks and
phone. Can you give your name and address to confirm? HEATHER HOFFMAN: Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street.
JEFF ROBERTS: And your address, please? JAMES WILLIAMSON: Oh, 1000 Jackson Place. JEFF ROBERTS: Thank you. You can proceed.
that we heard July 9, 2020. The Board has requested to review one case -- a proposal at 1618 Forest Street, and we'll have CDD Staff begin by summarizing the case. I think
just mentioned, these are actually two projects -- sister projects -- the properties are located on Forest Street just south of Porter Square between Mass Ave and Beacon Street.
projects -- the properties are located on Forest Street just south of Porter Square between Mass Ave and Beacon Street. And [it] actually consists of two buildings across
those would all be new, Group 2A accessible units. On the other side of the street at 17-19 Forest Street, which doesn't seem like it's on the agenda tonight,
the opposite building, but it would be 10 total renovated, new units in the basement, 17-19 Forest Street. And that would increase the unit count in that
Williamson. Can you give your name and address, please? JAMES WILLIAMSON: Yeah, James Williamson, 1000 Jackson Place.
JAMES WILLIAMSON: Yeah, James Williamson, 1000 Jackson Place. JEFF ROBERTS: Thanks.
Page 93 Broadway 1:5 Brother's 41:1
