Item Number 20-45, regarding examining what traffic calming measures may be implemented for Walden Street, Raymond Street and Richdale Avenue. CMA 2020 #261
Councillor Simmons Concord Avenue project which appears counter to the City’s zoning code and confer with the relevant departments on how many projects that had a permit prior to these changes could request an extension
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
Nov 16, 2020 19-151. Report on the feasibility of making Porter Square and Massachusetts Avenue between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus
19-151. Report on the feasibility of making Porter Square and Massachusetts Avenue between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Mayor Siddiqui, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Nolan, Councillor Sobrinho- Wheeler (O-6) from 9/14/2020 Street, Raymond Street and Richdale Ave.
Wheeler (O-6) from 9/14/2020 Street, Raymond Street and Richdale Ave. Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor Simmons (O-11)
Please find attached a response to Awaiting Report Item Number 20-45, regarding examining what traffic calming measures may be implemented for Walden Street, Raymond Street and Richdale Avenue, received from Assistant City Manager for Community Development Iram Farooq and Traffic, Parking &
Awaiting Report 20-45 regarding implementation of traffic calming measures on Walden Street. Date: November 10, 2020
With respect to the above-mentioned policy order, we report the following. A roadway and sidewalk reconstruction project on Walden Street was completed in the community process. As a result of their input, the following traffic calming tools
the community process. As a result of their input, the following traffic calming tools were included in the project: Walden Street roadway width was narrowed by the bend between Hubbard Avenue/Mt. Pleasant Street and Vincent Street, a raised
were included in the project: Walden Street roadway width was narrowed by the bend between Hubbard Avenue/Mt. Pleasant Street and Vincent Street, a raised intersection was built on Walden Street at Raymond Street and a curb extension
bend between Hubbard Avenue/Mt. Pleasant Street and Vincent Street, a raised intersection was built on Walden Street at Raymond Street and a curb extension was built at Richdale Avenue. Installation of these tools resulted in some speed
intersection was built on Walden Street at Raymond Street and a curb extension was built at Richdale Avenue. Installation of these tools resulted in some speed reductions of vehicles and improved pedestrian safety at crossing locations.
conjunction with other roadwork such as paving and sidewalk reconstruction. At this time, Walden Street is not included in the City’s Five-Year Sidewalk and Street and Reconstruction Plan. Since no roadway construction is programmed for Walden
this time, Walden Street is not included in the City’s Five-Year Sidewalk and Street and Reconstruction Plan. Since no roadway construction is programmed for Walden Street at present, stand-alone speed management tools, not requiring
and strategies. • Walden Street is included in the new 20 mph Speed Limit Safety Zones Program and new speed limit signs are anticipated to be installed by the end of the year.
speed. • The raised intersection at Raymond Street is being reviewed for condition and effectiveness to ensure it provides the speed reduction and pedestrian safety
Please transmit this email to the City Council for its meeting of November 16, 2020. Thank you. Cambridge City Council John Pitkin, 18 Fayette Street, Cambridge,
Cambridge City Council John Pitkin, 18 Fayette Street, Cambridge, Subject: Tree Protection Ordinance
I'm writing in support of POR 2020 #267. I'm a frequent user of Riverbend Park when Memorial Drive is closed. On Saturday, with warm weather and people out celebrating election results, Riverbend Park had many people -- far more than would be using the road in vehicles -- but
I'm a frequent user of Riverbend Park when Memorial Drive is closed. On Saturday, with warm weather and people out celebrating election results, Riverbend Park had many people -- far more than would be using the road in vehicles -- but everyone was able to maintain a healthy distance.
everyone was able to maintain a healthy distance. Closing Memorial Drive to cars makes more room for walking on the sidewalks, keeps green space for people to sit, and makes biking easier.
Peace Be Unto To You, Hello everybody, I'm Hasson Rashid, I reside at 820 Massachusetts Avenue,my Written Public Comment is on Policy Order and Resolution List, Item # 2. Update on City-Owned Vacant Properties Inventory Vice Mayor
the communication as written. Fellow residents and I answered a similar city survey years ago when we lived in the Kennedy Biscuit Loft Building near Central Square. There were issues with the management treating the low-income tenants badly. Nothing came out of that survey. I wholeheartedly support asking low-income residents of their
Re: Public Comment 11/16/2020, CMA #263, POR #261, POR#262 I apologize, Kavish Gandhi, 115 Hampshire Street #4 On Nov 12, 2020, at 7:47 PM, Kavish Gandhi <kmbrgandhi@gmail.com> wrote:
inclusionary zoning and climate mitigation regulations; and A recent project, 605 Concord Avenue, which started in 2016, should now be subject to inclusionary zoning, requiring 10, not 7, affordable housing units, and required to
That the City Manager be and hereby is requested to review the granting of an extension for the 605 Concord Avenue project which appears counter to the City’s zoning code and confer with the relevant departments on how many projects that had a
has been deemed a lower-risk activity during the pandemic; and The Cambridge City Council passed a policy order in April that led to Riverbend Park being opened on Memorial Drive on both Saturdays and Sundays, which has provided
The Cambridge City Council passed a policy order in April that led to Riverbend Park being opened on Memorial Drive on both Saturdays and Sundays, which has provided an opportunity for residents to spend time outside while safely social distancing; and
Riverbend Park, which is owned and operated by Massachusetts Department of Conservation and Recreation (DCR) is currently scheduled to be open on Memorial Drive through Sunday, November 29, 2020; and
Riverbend Park open beyond November 29; and be it further That the city confer with DCR and advocate for extending Riverbend Park the length of Memorial Drive; and further be it
That the city confer with DCR and advocate for extending Riverbend Park the length of Memorial Drive; and further be it That the City or DCR collect data on residents’ usage of Riverbend Park to better
of Memorial Drive; and further be it That the City or DCR collect data on residents’ usage of Riverbend Park to better inform future decisions regarding its status; and be it further
zoning. She asked the City Council to look at the contradictory elements of the plan. Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street, stated that she is one of the few members of the public that attend the CRA meetings. She said that the CRA could teach every other board, commission,
for a possible and temporary shift to remote learning for all students next week. Cambridge City Hall | 795 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139 ssiddiqui@cambridgema.gov│617-349-4321│tty: 617-492-0235│cambridgema.gov
level, dyslexia indicators, and professional development to educators The final CPS Family Resource Fair will be held on Saturday, November 14th outside the Pisani Center at 131 Washington Street from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM. It will be a grab-and-go event
The final CPS Family Resource Fair will be held on Saturday, November 14th outside the Pisani Center at 131 Washington Street from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM. It will be a grab-and-go event for families, as usual.
Sumbul Siddiqui Cambridge City Hall | 795 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139 ssiddiqui@cambridgema.gov│617-349-4321│tty: 617-492-0235│cambridgema.gov
