Toomey, Councillor Zondervan Item Number 20-43, regarding a report on trash left out on Columbia Street. CMA 2020 #216
ON THE TABLE premises numbered 10 Acorn Park Drive; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works. No
III. APPLICATIONS AND PETITIONS premises numbered 159 Allston Street; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works. Response
Next: 10/19/2020 5:30 PM numbered 33 Bristol Street; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works. No response has been
Toomey, Councillor Zondervan across Massachusetts Avenue in front of City Hall announcing Cambridge Celebrates Indigenous People's Day from October 9, 2020 thru October 16, 2020.
across Massachusetts Avenue in front of City Hall announcing Cambridge Celebrates Indigenous People's Day from October 9, 2020 thru October 16, 2020. APP 2020 #38
Oct 5, 2020 6. A communication was received from Margie Yates, 36 Upland Road, regarding City Manager's contract.
Councillor Toomey speeding on Kinnaird Street, from Western Avenue to Putnam Avenue; Hancock Street, from Massachusetts Avenue to Kinnaird Street; Green Street, from Pleasant Street to Putnam Avenue; and
speeding on Kinnaird Street, from Western Avenue to Putnam Avenue; Hancock Street, from Massachusetts Avenue to Kinnaird Street; Green Street, from Pleasant Street to Putnam Avenue; and Franklin Street, from Putnam to Pleasant Street; and to consider ways to reduce speed, including
Massachusetts Avenue to Kinnaird Street; Green Street, from Pleasant Street to Putnam Avenue; and Franklin Street, from Putnam to Pleasant Street; and to consider ways to reduce speed, including raised crosswalks and additional signage
feasibility of installing the remaining flashing crosswalks as outlined in the PB4 proposal, particularly on Broadway and Norfolk Street and provide an update to this Council by October 26, 2020. POR 2020 #215
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
REPORT RECEIVED AND ACCEPTED Central Square Library branch. Vice Mayor Mallon, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (Calendar Item #8)
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Report on the potential for implementing sufficient traffic-calming solutions on Upton Street. Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (O-7) from 1/27/2020
Councillor Zondervan, Councillor Carlone (O-8) from 5/18/2020 Churchill Avenue” to “Matignon High School at Churchill Avenue”. Councillor Toomey (O-5) from 6/1/2020
neighborhoods, including the Port (Harvard and Windsor), the Coast (Putnam and Magazine), Brattle Street and North Cambridge (Rindge and Massachusetts Ave.). Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor Simmons, Councillor Nolan, Vice Mayor Mallon
neighboring community and the many individuals who commute through the area via the Alewife Red Line, the Minuteman Bikeway, Rindge Avenue and Alewife Brook Parkway.
REPORT RECEIVED AND ACCEPTED that will lead to increased enforcement of the parking regulations in front of 150 Erie Street, that will discourage illegal parking in front of the building.
Oct 5, 2020 20-43. Report on the recurring problem on Columbia Street involving the placement of trash and discarded furniture on the streets during the final weekend of each of the summer
Mayor Siddiqui, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Nolan, Councillor Sobrinho- Wheeler (O-6) from 9/14/2020 Street, Raymond Street and Richdale Ave.
Wheeler (O-6) from 9/14/2020 Street, Raymond Street and Richdale Ave. Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor Simmons (O-11)
from 9/14/2020 Huron Ave and Garden Street. Councillor Nolan (O-1) from 9/21/2020
not limited to): Preserving Affordability of Fresh Pond Apartments ($15 million) Support of Foundry Building Construction ($23 million); War Memorial Temporary Homeless Shelter ($2.2 million); COVID-19 related expenditures ($1.6 million); Complete Streets-Elm Street and Bicycle
The FY21 budget includes enhanced funding for art initiatives, including additional funding for the Public Arts Grant Program and increased support for the Central Square BID and Cultural District.
including Fire station upgrades, a multi-year Municipal Facilities Improvement Plan, technology initiatives, and construction of the Tobin Montessori School and Vassal Lane Upper School. Based on a property tax levy of $472.5 million, the FY21 residential tax rate will be $5.85 per
sewer debt. The multi-year school reconstruction program makes up $202 million of this total and includes the construction of the Tobin Montessori and Vassal Lane Upper School project. However, it should be noted that with this projected debt issuance, the City’s ability to fund
appropriation for the Foundry Building construction; DPW facility lease; public safety radio equipment; Central Square Branch Library improvements; E-Gov Projects; School Building Feasibility Study; War Memorial structural repairs; the Green Line Extension payment; and
equipment; Central Square Branch Library improvements; E-Gov Projects; School Building Feasibility Study; War Memorial structural repairs; the Green Line Extension payment; and Packet Pg. 49
Please find attached a response to Awaiting Report Item Number 20-43, regarding a report on trash left out on Columbia Street, received from Public Works Commissioner Owen O'Riordan. Very truly yours,
Commissioner DPW Columbia Street at the end of each of the Summer months. In response to the above referenced awaiting report, please know that traditionally one or two
This year, while we still saw large amounts of debris during the time frames mentioned above, we also saw this practice happening at the end of each month on streets such as Columbia Street. Although to a much lesser degree than the traditional move in/move out weeks, small
Our hope is that as the environment returns to normal these occurrences will also return to a normal cycles. In the meantime, we will monitor areas such as Columbia Street through the remainder of the year to assure that they are kept in a clean and safe condition, and we will also
We welcomed 212 people during the week and gave away 196 books. In addition, 126 children who completed Summer Reading challenges received e-gift cards to Porter Square Books.
In addition, 126 children who completed Summer Reading challenges received e-gift cards to Porter Square Books. Partnership Efforts during the Pandemic
discussion. Sites proposed include: o Corner of Cherry Street and Eaton Street o Moses Youth Center
o Moses Youth Center o Corner of Wester Ave and Jay Street o Corner of Cedar Street and Rindge Ave
o Corner of Wester Ave and Jay Street o Corner of Cedar Street and Rindge Ave Note: the group is also exploring possibility of installing a library next to CRLS.
high foot traffic areas. The City, working with the Central Square BID and the other business associations, has coordinated with the BID for the BID’s procurement, storage and distribution of propane heaters
Management—the tailored approach is key in supporting the Safety Net Collaborative and CPD’s support of survivors of domestic violence. It is also recommended that the City of Cambridge support Persons Assisting The Homeless (PATH) (Item #2 below) workers as proposed by the Central Square Business
of survivors of domestic violence. It is also recommended that the City of Cambridge support Persons Assisting The Homeless (PATH) (Item #2 below) workers as proposed by the Central Square Business Improvement District (BID) as a one (1) year pilot program. The City is currently working with the
space(s) to operate from and vehicles would be additional budgetary concerns. outreach workers to operate within Central Square who would provide outreach, field based case management and referrals for individuals who are unhoused. Under this model, the BID would hire 3
outreach workers with specialized training around mental health and addiction. The outreach team will provide services within Central Square and connect individuals to existing local and regional services. A one-year pilot of this program could provide valuable data on the effectiveness of adding outreach
A one-year pilot of this program could provide valuable data on the effectiveness of adding outreach responders trained in mental health response and harm reduction to the Central Square area. That evaluation could inform the best path forward for a city-wide approach to providing an alternative
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 10 Acorn Park Drive, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material specified by the
Dear Mr. Niranjan: On behalf of SXC Alewife Hotel, LLC, BSC Group has completed the City of Cambridge’s online application for a curb cut at 10 Acorn Park Drive to service the AC Marriott Hotel.
On behalf of SXC Alewife Hotel, LLC, BSC Group has completed the City of Cambridge’s online application for a curb cut at 10 Acorn Park Drive to service the AC Marriott Hotel. The AC Hotel is located within the Cambridge Discovery Park development and currently
online application for a curb cut at 10 Acorn Park Drive to service the AC Marriott Hotel. The AC Hotel is located within the Cambridge Discovery Park development and currently has access from Discovery Way, a private way, running parallel to Acorn Park Drive.
The AC Hotel is located within the Cambridge Discovery Park development and currently has access from Discovery Way, a private way, running parallel to Acorn Park Drive. The proposed curb cut and driveway have been designed to provide one-way only access
The proposed curb cut and driveway have been designed to provide one-way only access from Acorn Park Drive in accordance with the City of Cambridge requirements and the comments communicated at our site meetings in order to improve site access for hotel guests
and deliveries, and to provide improved emergency vehicle access to the Hotel. Visitors to the Hotel exiting Route 2 via the Alewife Station Access Road currently travel along Acorn Park Drive to Discovery Way in order to access the Hotel. The proposed drive
Visitors to the Hotel exiting Route 2 via the Alewife Station Access Road currently travel along Acorn Park Drive to Discovery Way in order to access the Hotel. The proposed drive will have improved wayfinding and access to the Hotel by providing direct access to the
will have improved wayfinding and access to the Hotel by providing direct access to the Hotel from Acorn Park Drive, including for ambulances, fire trucks and other emergency vehicles.
Facilities shall be installed on streets in either the Separated Network or be installed along: (a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, or (b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street
(a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, or (b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound.
(b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities are proposed to be Permanent Separated Bicycle
detailing why the extension was necessary by no later than May 1, 2025. D. By no later than May 1, 2022, the City Manager shall complete the installation of continuous Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between
D. By no later than May 1, 2022, the City Manager shall complete the installation of continuous Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting:
Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street;
Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and
(b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street.
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along Massachusetts Avenue other than (a),
(d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along Massachusetts Avenue other than (a), (b), (c) and (d) are proposed to be Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes, the requirements of
Facilities has commenced prior to the deadline established by this Subsection D, provided, however, that if Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes are to be installed along Massachusetts Avenue from Sydney Street to Inman Street, the requirements of this Subsection D shall be
however, that if Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes are to be installed along Massachusetts Avenue from Sydney Street to Inman Street, the requirements of this Subsection D shall be satisfied so long as the design of such Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes has commenced
Bicycle Lanes and or Quick-Build Separated Bicycle Lanes on: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street.
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. Packet Pg. 120
along (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or
(b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street,
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street, within one year of the City Manager’s submission to the City Council of the analysis of the
years of the submission of the impacts analysis. F. Any Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along segment (a) of Subsection E, Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street, must also be separated from Public
F. Any Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along segment (a) of Subsection E, Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street, must also be separated from Public Transportation for the full stretch of that segment.
Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along: (a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, (b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street,
(a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, (b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street, (c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and
(b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street, (c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and (d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from
(c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and (d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound,
(d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound, provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord
Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound, provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord Avenue to the segment of Concord Avenue contiguous to Follen Street shall be improved to
provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord Avenue to the segment of Concord Avenue contiguous to Follen Street shall be improved to meet the needs of users of all ages and abilities.
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 159 Allston Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material specified by the
Packet Pg. 177 159 Allston Street Client- Geraldine Small and Edward Small
159 Allston Street Client- Geraldine Small and Edward Small Area Schedule (Gross Building)
CLEAN OUT 159 Allston Street Legend
© 2020 Google 159 Allston Street Legend
Packet Pg. 197 159 Allston Street Cambridge Housing Authority- LBJ Apartments
159 Allston Street Cambridge Housing Authority- LBJ Apartments Legend
Perez, Lori Re: 159 Allston Street Curb cut application Curb Cut Allston St.pdf
Re: 159 Allston Street Curb cut application Curb Cut Allston St.pdf Packet Pg. 200
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 33 Bristol Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material specified by the
Location of any trees, sign posts, fire hydrants, utility poles, etc., in direct vicinity of proposed driveway Utility pole is at corner of Berkshire and Bristol Streets, 55.75' feet away. There is a "Safety Zone 20 MPH" sign at the leftmost corner of the building on Berkshire Street, 1' inset from the curb.
Utility pole is at corner of Berkshire and Bristol Streets, 55.75' feet away. There is a "Safety Zone 20 MPH" sign at the leftmost corner of the building on Berkshire Street, 1' inset from the curb. Attachments (4)
Packet Pg. 203 Subject Property Address: 33 Bristol Street / East Cambridge, MA 02141 Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517
Subject Property Address: 33 Bristol Street / East Cambridge, MA 02141 Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517 Note: This is the package of contact letters that were sent to
F 32 Bristol St.: Warren Katz, 20 Fairﬁ eld St., Boston, MA 02116 G 36 Bristol St.: George Chuang & Irene Kuan, 29 Goose Pond Rd., Lincoln, MA 01773 H 37 Bristol St.: Joseph Conceicao & Anna Conceicao, 35 Bristol Street, Cambridge, MA 02141
G 36 Bristol St.: George Chuang & Irene Kuan, 29 Goose Pond Rd., Lincoln, MA 01773 H 37 Bristol St.: Joseph Conceicao & Anna Conceicao, 35 Bristol Street, Cambridge, MA 02141 ABUTTORS LOCATION MAP
Stoneham, MA 02180 RE: 33 Bristol Street – Introductions and Curb Cut Modification Dear Mr. Pereira,
Dear Mr. Pereira, We are writing to you to introduce ourselves as the new owners of 33 Bristol Street, next door to your building at 8-10 Berkshire Street. As you might imagine. We are
We are writing to you to introduce ourselves as the new owners of 33 Bristol Street, next door to your building at 8-10 Berkshire Street. As you might imagine. We are very happy to be moving into your neighborhood. Dave and Deb, the previous
neighborhood. Those stories were a big part of what made us so excited about 33 Bristol Street. There will be two of us living in the building. We are architects and teachers. We
upper roof. • A new door into the side yard facing 8-10 Berkshire Street. • Reopening the original 1920s garage doors on Bristol Street to make them
• A new door into the side yard facing 8-10 Berkshire Street. • Reopening the original 1920s garage doors on Bristol Street to make them windows.
windows. • A roof deck on the one-story area of the building along Bristol Street. • A new door onto the roof deck.
Packet Pg. 207 Subject Property Address: 33 Bristol Street / East Cambridge, MA 02141 Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517
Subject Property Address: 33 Bristol Street / East Cambridge, MA 02141 Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517 Victor Pereira & Rosemary Pereira
Victor Pereira & Rosemary Pereira part of the property designated as 33 Bristol Street in the City of Cambridge records. Relocated curb cut at #4 Berkshire Street, which is
part of the property designated as 33 Bristol Street in the City of Cambridge records. Relocated curb cut at #4 Berkshire Street, which is PROPOSED MODIFIED CURB CUT - SITE PLAN
Maria and Liberta Pereira East Cambridge, MA 02141 RE: 33 Bristol Street – Introductions and Curb Cut Modification
East Cambridge, MA 02141 RE: 33 Bristol Street – Introductions and Curb Cut Modification Dear Maria and Liberta Pereira,
Dear Maria and Liberta Pereira, We are writing to you to introduce ourselves as the new owners of 33 Bristol Street, near your building at 15 Berkshire Street. As you might imagine. We are very happy
We are writing to you to introduce ourselves as the new owners of 33 Bristol Street, near your building at 15 Berkshire Street. As you might imagine. We are very happy to be moving into your neighborhood. Dave and Deb, the previous owners, told us
many good things about all of their neighbors and life in your neighborhood. Those stories were a big part of what made us so excited about 33 Bristol Street. There will be two of us living in the building. We are architects and teachers. We
upper roof. • A new door into the side yard facing 8-10 Berkshire Street. • Reopening the original 1920s garage doors on Bristol Street to make them
• A new door into the side yard facing 8-10 Berkshire Street. • Reopening the original 1920s garage doors on Bristol Street to make them windows.
windows. • A roof deck on the one-story area of the building along Bristol Street. • A new door onto the roof deck.
Packet Pg. 210 Subject Property Address: 33 Bristol Street / East Cambridge, MA 02141 Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517
Subject Property Address: 33 Bristol Street / East Cambridge, MA 02141 Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517 Maria Pereira & Liberta Pereira
Maria Pereira & Liberta Pereira part of the property designated as 33 Bristol Street in the City of Cambridge records. Relocated curb cut at #4 Berkshire Street, which is
part of the property designated as 33 Bristol Street in the City of Cambridge records. Relocated curb cut at #4 Berkshire Street, which is PROPOSED MODIFIED CURB CUT - SITE PLAN
Antonio Sousa & Beatriz Sousa East Cambridge, MA 02141 RE: 33 Bristol Street – Introductions and Curb Cut Modification
East Cambridge, MA 02141 RE: 33 Bristol Street – Introductions and Curb Cut Modification Dear Mr. Sousa and Ms. Sousa,
Dear Mr. Sousa and Ms. Sousa, We are writing to you to introduce ourselves as the new owners of 33 Bristol Street, near your building at 19-25 Bristol Street. As you might imagine. We are very happy
We are writing to you to introduce ourselves as the new owners of 33 Bristol Street, near your building at 19-25 Bristol Street. As you might imagine. We are very happy to be moving into your neighborhood. Dave and Deb, the previous owners, told us
many good things about all of their neighbors and life in your neighborhood. Those stories were a big part of what made us so excited about 33 Bristol Street. There will be two of us living in the building. We are architects and teachers. We
upper roof. • A new door into the side yard facing 8-10 Berkshire Street. • Reopening the original 1920s garage doors on Bristol Street to make them
• A new door into the side yard facing 8-10 Berkshire Street. • Reopening the original 1920s garage doors on Bristol Street to make them windows.
windows. • A roof deck on the one-story area of the building along Bristol Street. • A new door onto the roof deck.
Packet Pg. 213 Subject Property Address: 33 Bristol Street / East Cambridge, MA 02141 Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517
Subject Property Address: 33 Bristol Street / East Cambridge, MA 02141 Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517 Antonio Sousa & Beatriz Sousa
Antonio Sousa & Beatriz Sousa part of the property designated as 33 Bristol Street in the City of Cambridge records. Relocated curb cut at #4 Berkshire Street, which is
part of the property designated as 33 Bristol Street in the City of Cambridge records. Relocated curb cut at #4 Berkshire Street, which is PROPOSED MODIFIED CURB CUT - SITE PLAN
Antonio Pacheco & Belmira Pacheco East Cambridge, MA 02141 RE: 33 Bristol Street – Introductions and Curb Cut Modification
East Cambridge, MA 02141 RE: 33 Bristol Street – Introductions and Curb Cut Modification Dear Belmira and Antonio Pacheco,
Dear Belmira and Antonio Pacheco, We are writing to you to introduce ourselves as the new owners of 33 Bristol Street, near your building at 26 Bristol Street. As you might imagine. We are very happy to
We are writing to you to introduce ourselves as the new owners of 33 Bristol Street, near your building at 26 Bristol Street. As you might imagine. We are very happy to be moving into your neighborhood. Dave and Deb, the previous owners, told us
many good things about all their neighbors and life in your neighborhood. Those stories were a big part of what made us so excited about 33 Bristol Street. There will be two of us living in the building. We are architects and teachers. We
upper roof. • A new door into the side yard facing 8-10 Berkshire Street. • Reopening the original 1920s garage doors on Bristol Street to make them
• A new door into the side yard facing 8-10 Berkshire Street. • Reopening the original 1920s garage doors on Bristol Street to make them windows.
windows. • A roof deck on the one-story area of the building along Bristol Street. • A new door onto the roof deck.
Packet Pg. 216 Subject Property Address: 33 Bristol Street / East Cambridge, MA 02141 Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517
Subject Property Address: 33 Bristol Street / East Cambridge, MA 02141 Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517 Antonio Pacheco & Belmira Pacheco
Antonio Pacheco & Belmira Pacheco part of the property designated as 33 Bristol Street in the City of Cambridge records. Relocated curb cut at #4 Berkshire Street, which is
part of the property designated as 33 Bristol Street in the City of Cambridge records. Relocated curb cut at #4 Berkshire Street, which is PROPOSED MODIFIED CURB CUT - SITE PLAN
Michael Austin and Torgun Austin East Cambridge, MA 02141 RE: 33 Bristol Street – Introductions and Curb Cut Modification
East Cambridge, MA 02141 RE: 33 Bristol Street – Introductions and Curb Cut Modification Dear Michael Austin and Torgun Austin,
RE: 33 Bristol Street – Introductions and Curb Cut Modification Dear Michael Austin and Torgun Austin, We are writing to you to introduce ourselves as the new owners of 33 Bristol Street,
Dear Michael Austin and Torgun Austin, We are writing to you to introduce ourselves as the new owners of 33 Bristol Street, near your building at 28 Bristol Street. As you might imagine. We are very happy to
We are writing to you to introduce ourselves as the new owners of 33 Bristol Street, near your building at 28 Bristol Street. As you might imagine. We are very happy to be moving into your neighborhood. Dave and Deb, the previous owners, told us
many good things about all of their neighbors and life in your neighborhood. Those stories were a big part of what made us so excited about 33 Bristol Street. There will be two of us living in the building. We are architects and teachers. We
upper roof. • A new door into the side yard facing 8-10 Berkshire Street. • Reopening the original 1920s garage doors on Bristol Street to make them
• A new door into the side yard facing 8-10 Berkshire Street. • Reopening the original 1920s garage doors on Bristol Street to make them windows.
windows. • A roof deck on the one-story area of the building along Bristol Street. • A new door onto the roof deck.
Packet Pg. 219 Subject Property Address: 33 Bristol Street / East Cambridge, MA 02141 Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517
Subject Property Address: 33 Bristol Street / East Cambridge, MA 02141 Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517 Michael Austin & Torgun Austin
Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517 Michael Austin & Torgun Austin part of the property designated as 33 Bristol Street in the City of Cambridge records.
Michael Austin & Torgun Austin part of the property designated as 33 Bristol Street in the City of Cambridge records. Relocated curb cut at #4 Berkshire Street, which is
part of the property designated as 33 Bristol Street in the City of Cambridge records. Relocated curb cut at #4 Berkshire Street, which is PROPOSED MODIFIED CURB CUT - SITE PLAN
Warren Katz East Cambridge, MA 02141 RE: 33 Bristol Street – Introductions and Curb Cut Modification
East Cambridge, MA 02141 RE: 33 Bristol Street – Introductions and Curb Cut Modification Dear Mr. Katz,
Dear Mr. Katz, We are writing to you to introduce ourselves as the new owners of 33 Bristol Street, near your building at 32 Bristol Street. As you might imagine. We are very happy to
We are writing to you to introduce ourselves as the new owners of 33 Bristol Street, near your building at 32 Bristol Street. As you might imagine. We are very happy to be moving into your neighborhood. Dave and Deb, the previous owners, told us
many good things about all of their neighbors and life in your neighborhood. Those stories were a big part of what made us so excited about 33 Bristol Street. There will be two of us living in the building. We are architects and teachers. We
upper roof. • A new door into the side yard facing 8-10 Berkshire Street. • Reopening the original 1920s garage doors on Bristol Street to make them
• A new door into the side yard facing 8-10 Berkshire Street. • Reopening the original 1920s garage doors on Bristol Street to make them windows.
windows. • A roof deck on the one-story area of the building along Bristol Street. • A new door onto the roof deck.
Packet Pg. 222 Subject Property Address: 33 Bristol Street / East Cambridge, MA 02141 Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517
Subject Property Address: 33 Bristol Street / East Cambridge, MA 02141 Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517 Warren Katz
Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517 Warren Katz part of the property designated as 33 Bristol Street in the City of Cambridge records.
Warren Katz part of the property designated as 33 Bristol Street in the City of Cambridge records. Relocated curb cut at #4 Berkshire Street, which is
part of the property designated as 33 Bristol Street in the City of Cambridge records. Relocated curb cut at #4 Berkshire Street, which is PROPOSED MODIFIED CURB CUT - SITE PLAN
Lincoln, MA 01773 RE: 33 Bristol Street – Introductions and Curb Cut Modification Dear Mr. Chuang and Ms. Kuan,
Dear Mr. Chuang and Ms. Kuan, We are writing to you to introduce ourselves as the new owners of 33 Bristol Street, near your building at 36 Bristol Street. As you might imagine. We are very happy to
We are writing to you to introduce ourselves as the new owners of 33 Bristol Street, near your building at 36 Bristol Street. As you might imagine. We are very happy to be moving into your neighborhood. Dave and Deb, the previous owners, told us
many good things about all of their neighbors and life in your neighborhood. Those stories were a big part of what made us so excited about 33 Bristol Street. There will be two of us living in the building. We are architects and teachers. We
upper roof. • A new door into the side yard facing 8-10 Berkshire Street. • Reopening the original 1920s garage doors on Bristol Street to make them
• A new door into the side yard facing 8-10 Berkshire Street. • Reopening the original 1920s garage doors on Bristol Street to make them windows.
windows. • A roof deck on the one-story area of the building along Bristol Street. • A new door onto the roof deck.
Packet Pg. 225 Subject Property Address: 33 Bristol Street / East Cambridge, MA 02141 Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517
Subject Property Address: 33 Bristol Street / East Cambridge, MA 02141 Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517 George Chuang & Irene Kuan
Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517 George Chuang & Irene Kuan part of the property designated as 33 Bristol Street in the City of Cambridge records.
George Chuang & Irene Kuan part of the property designated as 33 Bristol Street in the City of Cambridge records. Relocated curb cut at #4 Berkshire Street, which is
part of the property designated as 33 Bristol Street in the City of Cambridge records. Relocated curb cut at #4 Berkshire Street, which is PROPOSED MODIFIED CURB CUT - SITE PLAN
Cambridge, MA 02141 RE: 33 Bristol Street – Introductions and Curb Cut Modification Dear Joseph and Anna,
neighborhood. Those stories were a big part of what made us so excited about 33 Bristol Street. There will be two of us living in the building. We are architects and teachers. We
upper roof. • A new door into the side yard facing 8-10 Berkshire Street. • Reopening the original 1920s garage doors on Bristol Street to make them
• A new door into the side yard facing 8-10 Berkshire Street. • Reopening the original 1920s garage doors on Bristol Street to make them windows.
windows. • A roof deck on the one-story area of the building along Bristol Street. • A new door onto the roof deck.
Packet Pg. 228 Subject Property Address: 33 Bristol Street / East Cambridge, MA 02141 Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517
Subject Property Address: 33 Bristol Street / East Cambridge, MA 02141 Owners: Ron Witte & Sarah Whiting / 227 Concord Ave., #4 / Cambridge, MA 02141 / (281) 455-0517 Joseph and Anna Conceicao
Joseph and Anna Conceicao part of the property designated as 33 Bristol Street in the City of Cambridge records. Relocated curb cut at #4 Berkshire Street, which is
part of the property designated as 33 Bristol Street in the City of Cambridge records. Relocated curb cut at #4 Berkshire Street, which is PROPOSED MODIFIED CURB CUT - SITE PLAN
to be removed. Berkshire Street Note: Existing service connections
to be removed. Berkshire Street Note: Existing service connections
Be granted permission for a temporary banner hung across the public way located at: Massachusetts Avenue in front of City Hall from 10-09-2020 through 10-16-2020 Banner Description: Cambridge Celebrates Indigenous Peoples' Day
Massachusetts Avenue in front of City Hall from 10-09-2020 through 10-16-2020 Banner Description: Cambridge Celebrates Indigenous Peoples' Day Petitioner:
It is usually coupled with the false choice, “if we don’t vote now, pass something now, give in now, we will lose and they will walk away”. I heard this tactic with the Mass & Main tower in Central Square. “If we don’t give the developers what they want, they will walk”, which
now, we will lose and they will walk away”. I heard this tactic with the Mass & Main tower in Central Square. “If we don’t give the developers what they want, they will walk”, which wouldn’t have happened. This particular councilor’s fast and fearful arguments have pushed
I'm writing to express my support of the updated Cycling Safety Ordinance, in its current state without any changes.I love Cambridge and I want to see protected bicycle lanes on all streets in the network, including Cambridge Street. As an avid bicyclist, I have seen firsthand that protected bike lanes can mean the difference between life and death. I am
Estate Enterprises LLC (Sean Hope) of their plans for 100% affordable housing development (AHD) at 2072 Massachusetts Avenue, currently the site of one-story, free-standing Darul Kabab restaurant, and flush against Cambridge Housing Authority’s Russell Apartments.
Massachusetts Avenue, currently the site of one-story, free-standing Darul Kabab restaurant, and flush against Cambridge Housing Authority’s Russell Apartments. The developers have already proven that their business model of 100% AHD is financially viable with their 20
affordable apartment homes at Port Landing in 2016, long before the AHOA. They are now testing the repeatability of their model with the Frost Terrace project, a larger 40 100% AHD, with their next project at The developers were so confident of their business model that even before the first phase of construction at
The developers were so confident of their business model that even before the first phase of construction at the Frost Terrace kicked off in July 2019, they purchased the property in April 2018, using a $3.8-million-dollar loan from the Cambridge Affordable Housing Trust, And they plan to file a comprehensive permit zoning
the Frost Terrace kicked off in July 2019, they purchased the property in April 2018, using a $3.8-million-dollar loan from the Cambridge Affordable Housing Trust, And they plan to file a comprehensive permit zoning application to the BZA to build an 8 story building with 49 units of publicly subsidized 100% affordable housing
mechanical room!). This is well beyond 6 stories and 70 feet the proposed AHOA would allow according to Mr. Korb. Contrast this to the 6 story Russell Apt next door and 5 story Henderson Carriage building across the street at this very busy intersection of Walden Street and Mass. Ave! The building will cover practically the
Korb. Contrast this to the 6 story Russell Apt next door and 5 story Henderson Carriage building across the street at this very busy intersection of Walden Street and Mass. Ave! The building will cover practically the entire lot of 8,515 sq. ft.
for-profit developers, with less altruistic motives than Capstone Communities LLC and Hope Real Estate Enterprises LLC, to shoehorn AHDs into residential neighborhoods (as in 56 Cedar Street; please see my attached rendering extracted from last year's submittal) that will destroy the fabric of the neighborhood but will
Trust, the for-profit developers Capstone Communities LLC (Jason Korb) and Hope Real Estate Enterprises LLC (Sean Hope) purchased 2072 Massachusetts Avenue, currently the site of the one-story, free-standing Darul Kabab restaurant at the corner of
Packet Pg. 252 Walden Street (once a KFC fast-food outlet, then briefly Banjo's Roast The property abuts both an open-air resident-only parking lot owned by the city and the
(North Cambridge) who attend multiple meetings automatically qualify as voting members. The chairman of the NCSC is Richard Clarey of 15 Brookford Street (617-876-0191, rclarey@aol.com). Clerk Michael Brandon can be contacted at 617-864-3520 or NCSC-mail-owner@yahoogroups.com.
The chairman of the NCSC is Richard Clarey of 15 Brookford Street (617-876-0191, rclarey@aol.com). Clerk Michael Brandon can be contacted at 617-864-3520 or NCSC-mail-owner@yahoogroups.com. TO CANCEL NCSC-mail automatically, send a blank e-mail message to NCSC-mail-
Overlay Zoning Petition Contextual Impact Analysis – 56 Cedar Street Packet Pg. 254
Site Specific Example 2 – Current 56 Cedar Street SP 273 2/27/2013 - Rejected by Planning
Board as “this building will be out of character with the aspect of Cedar Street.” • Developer demolished section of newly
Clerk; info@cambridgebikesafety.org Support for the Cycling Safety Ordinance on Cambridge Street I am writing to state my support for the Cycling Safety Ordinance in its current form without any changes.
calls to other cyclists involving double-parked vehicles blocking the bike lane and careless turning. I am particularly disappointed that this dangerous and congested section of Cambridge Street is potentially being considered for exemption from the Ordinance.
Rena Leib My name is Rena Leib and I live at 10 Arnold Circle in Cambridge. I am speaking in support of the Policy Order on Medical & Scientific Collaboration with Cuba.
I wanted to speak to you this evening about the Cycling Safety Ordinance. Rather than reiterate my arguments about why I think that it would be good to remove Cambridge Street from the CSO, I thought that I would use my time to ask some questions. I guess that it will be up to the nine of you to decide if you would like to speak
to any of them before you ordain it this evening. infrastructure project? Cambridge Street makes up about 2 miles of the 26 included. Joe Barr estimated the loss on Cambridge Street to be about 150 of the existing 250 spaces. Is it fair to estimate that the entire
infrastructure project? Cambridge Street makes up about 2 miles of the 26 included. Joe Barr estimated the loss on Cambridge Street to be about 150 of the existing 250 spaces. Is it fair to estimate that the entire project will remove just under 2,000 spaces? Was any impact study done to obtain any of this information?
four streets included in this ordinance? I know that there was no attempt to reach out to the businesses and residents along Cambridge Street and I also know that most of the business owners who reached out to you as a Council, have not heard back from the proponents. As a constituent, I find this last piece really troubling.
initiative. How can you possibly imagine that this isn’t going to be worse? of separated cycle facilities along Cambridge Street. If favorable solutions are agreed to by all concerned constituents, will you support amending this ordinance if necessary?
That the City Manager is requested to direct the appropriate City staff to affix the Indigenous Peoples’ Day Banner on Massachusetts Avenue by City Hall beginning on October 9, 2020 for no less than one week.
to consider the request from Erinn Pearson for a street corner dedication in the vicinity of the corner of Putnam Avenue and Sidney Street in honor of her grandmother, Ruby Pearson, who recently celebrated her 100th birthday; and be it further
eliminate all crashes that result in serious or fatal injuries; and Despite the reduced speed limit, there are certain streets in Cambridge where residents feel that motorists continue to speed, such as: Kinnaird Street, from
Despite the reduced speed limit, there are certain streets in Cambridge where residents feel that motorists continue to speed, such as: Kinnaird Street, from Western Avenue to Putnam Avenue; Hancock Street, from Massachusetts
residents feel that motorists continue to speed, such as: Kinnaird Street, from Western Avenue to Putnam Avenue; Hancock Street, from Massachusetts Avenue to Kinnaird Street; Green Street, from Pleasant Street to Putnam
Western Avenue to Putnam Avenue; Hancock Street, from Massachusetts Avenue to Kinnaird Street; Green Street, from Pleasant Street to Putnam Avenue; and Franklin Street, from Putnam to Pleasant Street; and
Avenue to Kinnaird Street; Green Street, from Pleasant Street to Putnam Avenue; and Franklin Street, from Putnam to Pleasant Street; and The City of Cambridge has a vested interest in ensuring the safety of
Avenue; and Franklin Street, from Putnam to Pleasant Street; and The City of Cambridge has a vested interest in ensuring the safety of pedestrians, bikers, and other motorists from speeding drivers; therefore be it
ORDERED: That the City Manager work with the Department of Traffic and Parking to conduct an evaluation of speeding on Kinnaird Street, from Western Avenue to Putnam Avenue; Hancock Street, from Massachusetts Avenue to Kinnaird
conduct an evaluation of speeding on Kinnaird Street, from Western Avenue to Putnam Avenue; Hancock Street, from Massachusetts Avenue to Kinnaird Street; Green Street, from Pleasant Street to Putnam Avenue; and Franklin
Putnam Avenue; Hancock Street, from Massachusetts Avenue to Kinnaird Street; Green Street, from Pleasant Street to Putnam Avenue; and Franklin Street, from Putnam to Pleasant Street; and to consider ways to reduce speed,
Street; Green Street, from Pleasant Street to Putnam Avenue; and Franklin Street, from Putnam to Pleasant Street; and to consider ways to reduce speed, including raised crosswalks and additional signage.
Two of the proposed intersections in the “flashing crosswalks for safer streets” project are the intersection of Broadway and Norfolk Street and Elm and Hampshire Street, which was outlined in the project as 2 of the 10 intersections that drivers speed
discuss the feasibility of installing the remaining flashing crosswalks as outlined in the PB4 proposal, particularly on Broadway and Norfolk Street and provide an update to this Council by October 26, 2020.
OeXIuOaqg/viewform> with them ASAP. My Office will be hosting a couple more Family Resource Fairs in partnership with CPS and the School Committee this month. Our upcoming Fairs are on Saturday, October 3rd, outside the Putnam Avenue
My Office will be hosting a couple more Family Resource Fairs in partnership with CPS and the School Committee this month. Our upcoming Fairs are on Saturday, October 3rd, outside the Putnam Avenue Upper School from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM and on Saturday, October 17th, on the Cambridge Public
Committee this month. Our upcoming Fairs are on Saturday, October 3rd, outside the Putnam Avenue Upper School from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM and on Saturday, October 17th, on the Cambridge Public Library lawn from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM. Both will be quick grab-and-go events for answering back-
My Office will be hosting a couple more Family Resource Fairs in partnership with CPS and the School Committee this month. Our upcoming Fairs are on Saturday, October 3rd, outside the Putnam Avenue Upper School from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM and on Saturday, October 17th,
School Committee this month. Our upcoming Fairs are on Saturday, October 3rd, outside the Putnam Avenue Upper School from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM and on Saturday, October 17th, on the Cambridge Public Library lawn from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM. Both will be quick grab-
Putnam Avenue Upper School from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM and on Saturday, October 17th, on the Cambridge Public Library lawn from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM. Both will be quick grab- and-go events for answering back-to-school questions and sharing resources.
and-go events for answering back-to-school questions and sharing resources. Cambridge City Hall | 795 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139 ssiddiqui@cambridgema.gov│617-349-4321│tty: 617-492-0235│cambridgema.gov
Sumbul Siddiqui Cambridge City Hall | 795 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139 ssiddiqui@cambridgema.gov│617-349-4321│tty: 617-492-0235│cambridgema.gov
