Department to commence the public process with the Port neighborhood and surrounding communities to determine the future use of the 35 Cherry Street parcel for affordable housing, and in conjunction with the community, determine the type of housing that would meet the most
Toomey, Councillor Zondervan premises numbered 87 Cambridge Park Drive; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public
III. APPLICATIONS AND PETITIONS a projecting sign at the premises numbered 145 Broadway approval has been received from Inspectional Services, Department of Public Works, Community Development Department and no
Toomey, Councillor Zondervan application for 87 Cambridgepark Drive. COM 753 #2020
Toomey, Councillor Zondervan additional information regarding the curb cut application for 101 Cambridgepark Drive COM 754 #2020
Toomey, Councillor Zondervan affordable housing at 35 Cherry Street. COM 758 #2020
Toomey, Councillor Zondervan the request from Councillor Toomey for a street corner dedication in the vicinity of the corner of Otis Street and Sciarappa Street in honor of the late Joseph and Mary Szulewski.
the request from Councillor Toomey for a street corner dedication in the vicinity of the corner of Otis Street and Sciarappa Street in honor of the late Joseph and Mary Szulewski. POR 2020 #257
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Mayor Siddiqui, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Nolan, Councillor Sobrinho- Wheeler (O-6) from 9/14/2020 Street, Raymond Street and Richdale Ave.
Wheeler (O-6) from 9/14/2020 Street, Raymond Street and Richdale Ave. Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor Simmons (O-11)
geriatric social worker. She volunteers as a member/participant with the Cambridge Insight Meditation Center and First Church Cambridge, is a former Chair of the Families of Rindge Avenue Upper Campus PTA, as a youth leader at First Church, Cambridge and as a Justice of the
Meditation Center and First Church Cambridge, is a former Chair of the Families of Rindge Avenue Upper Campus PTA, as a youth leader at First Church, Cambridge and as a Justice of the Peace for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. She has recently begun volunteering at Food for
As part of a 2013 agreement related to the PUD-5 rezoning, MIT conveyed the parcel at 35 Cherry Street (Assessor’s Lot #75-118) to the City; and This agreement stipulated that use of the property shall be determined through a public
Development Department to commence the public process with the Port neighborhood and surrounding communities to determine the future use of the 35 Cherry Street parcel for affordable housing, and in conjunction with the community, determine the type of
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 87 Cambridge Park Drive, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material
maintaining signs, the Commissioner of Public Works be and hereby is authorized to grant a permit to Sweet Green for a projecting sign at the premises numbered 145 Broadway, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Provided that, before erecting the above named
Nov 04,2020 Re: Sweetgreen Sign - 145 Broadway Dear Council President and City Councillors,
how much our property values have increased and it has absolutely nothing to do with preservation efforts at all. Some 25 years ago my mother and siblings sold the family homestead on Gore Street for $200,000. Several months ago that same property sold for $3.7 million dollars and it is in far worse condition
Enclosed please find the following additional information regarding the curbcut application for 101 Cambridgepark Drive that appears under the Charter Right section of your Agenda.
Ming-Tai Huh Support for POR 2020 #246 — Build Affordable Housing at 35 Cherry Street The City has done its homework. It's surveyed its residents, and knows what their most critical need is. (It's affordable
to consider the request from Councillor Toomey for a street corner dedication in the vicinity of the corner of Otis Street and Sciarappa Street in honor of the late Joseph and Mary Szulewski; and be it further
Chair - Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler Richard Curran, 175 Richdale Avenue, stated that his wife, Sharon Hamer, died in Harvard Square on September 17, 2019. He supported safety improvements like protected bike lanes, limiting traffic to one
September 17, 2019. He supported safety improvements like protected bike lanes, limiting traffic to one lane, repainting the crosswalk markings and syncing the timing of the two traffic lights on Kennedy Street and Massachusetts Avenue. He urged the committee to ban multi-ton trucks from Harvard square.
lane, repainting the crosswalk markings and syncing the timing of the two traffic lights on Kennedy Street and Massachusetts Avenue. He urged the committee to ban multi-ton trucks from Harvard square. George Schneeloch, 81 School Street, Somerville, stated that the city should make voluntary changes, for
and Massachusetts Avenue. He urged the committee to ban multi-ton trucks from Harvard square. George Schneeloch, 81 School Street, Somerville, stated that the city should make voluntary changes, for example, setting up a truck depot so smaller trucks can make deliveries instead of bigger ones. He stated
Chair - Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler Denise Jillson, 2203 Massachusetts Avenue, Executive Director of the Harvard Square Business Association, stated that the association supported an order approved by the city council on October 2,
September 16, 2020 street, which is Market Street to traffic and allow only mass transit and special vehicles delivery. He stated that he supported making Harvard square more pedestrian oriented.
street, which is Market Street to traffic and allow only mass transit and special vehicles delivery. He stated that he supported making Harvard square more pedestrian oriented. In response to a question from Councillor Carlone, Ms. Watkins explained that a raised crosswalk
just for the weekend. In response to a question from Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler about closing Harvard Square portion of Massachusetts Avenue to truck traffic or all traffic, Mr. Barr explained that Massachusetts Avenue is a
In response to a question from Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler about closing Harvard Square portion of Massachusetts Avenue to truck traffic or all traffic, Mr. Barr explained that Massachusetts Avenue is a state route. Therefore, closures to all traffic or daytime closure to truck traffic are unlikely to be approved
state route. Therefore, closures to all traffic or daytime closure to truck traffic are unlikely to be approved by the Massachusetts Department of Transportation. He added that there was a concern about this traffic being diverted down smaller streets should this portion of Massachusetts Avenue be closed to traffic.
by the Massachusetts Department of Transportation. He added that there was a concern about this traffic being diverted down smaller streets should this portion of Massachusetts Avenue be closed to traffic. Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler moved to
application ASAP. We still have spots! Cambridge City Hall | 795 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139 ssiddiqui@cambridgema.gov│617-349-4321│tty: 617-492-0235│cambridgema.gov
Sumbul Siddiqui Cambridge City Hall | 795 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139 ssiddiqui@cambridgema.gov│617-349-4321│tty: 617-492-0235│cambridgema.gov
