Public Hearings PB# 359 -- 75-109 Smith Place 7 PB# 355 (continued from 12/10/2019) 86
have a continued public hearing on a case that -- development proposal at 97 Cambridge Park Drive, which was previously heard and is coming back.
will be a hearing on a retail cannabis proposal for an Economic Empowerment applicant at 701-703 B Mount Auburn Street, that's out near the -- where the Star Market is,
Economic Empowerment applicant at 701-703 B Mount Auburn Street, that's out near the -- where the Star Market is, near the border with Watertown, I believe.
We also have a public hearing on a proposed hotel development at 727 Mass Ave in Central Square. And then March 24 we also are planning to have at
public hearing for 6:30 p.m., Planning Board special permit #359, and for #75-109 Smith Place. Are you starting us off, Mr. Rafferty?
Rafferty, R-a-f-f-e-r-t-y. I'm an Attorney with offices located at 907 Massachusetts Avenue in Cambridge. I'm appearing this evening on behalf of the Davis
located at 907 Massachusetts Avenue in Cambridge. I'm appearing this evening on behalf of the Davis Companies, the applicants of tonight's project. Seated in
this is occurring at a unique time in this district. Smith Place -- I'm sure the Board is well familiar with Smith Place, and if you went out there today, it really
Smith Place -- I'm sure the Board is well familiar with Smith Place, and if you went out there today, it really has all the characteristics of its last 40 or 50 years.
market conditions more than anything else, this section of Concord Avenue is undergoing transformation as we speak. The timing of the transformation coordinates nicely with the
Quadrangle years ago when he had the bold idea of replacing housing on Fawcett Street, a building now called, "The Atmark." And in those days, those of us who have been
to the street itself, the street width as you probably know Smith Place is kind of in the middle of the block. You come in from Concord Avenue and you have a
Smith Place is kind of in the middle of the block. You come in from Concord Avenue and you have a narrow opening where the Burger King is and the pool supply
You come in from Concord Avenue and you have a narrow opening where the Burger King is and the pool supply guy. And there's no need to be speed bumps out there,
I would be remiss if I did not mention 35 Cambridge Park Drive, across the way in the Triangle. That was a renovation in a building which I'm sure you're
buildings have been hidden right now. If you recognize the context, Concord Ave -- Smith Place makes its way out kind of weekly behind the Burger King. But if you go up Moulton
context, Concord Ave -- Smith Place makes its way out kind of weekly behind the Burger King. But if you go up Moulton Street or Fawcett Street, those feel more like real streets.
of weekly behind the Burger King. But if you go up Moulton Street or Fawcett Street, those feel more like real streets. And what we observed, and it's pretty plain to
probably a little clearer here than the last drawings we were looking at. You can see Wilson Road and Fawcett are very well-defined until they meet Smith Place, and then
were looking at. You can see Wilson Road and Fawcett are very well-defined until they meet Smith Place, and then essentially stop. But there's a vision that those two
streets will continue along. Those streets are also -- especially Smith Place - - quite narrow. There, as Jim said, the sidewalks are ill-
So the proposal was to respect the existing centerlines of the rights of way of Smith Place, Wilson Road and Fawcett Street. And then there were two slightly
centerlines of the rights of way of Smith Place, Wilson Road and Fawcett Street. And then there were two slightly different street widths proposed.
And so, you can see that some of the buildings like 40 Smith Place -- eventually over time, the new buildings will hopefully evolve along those lines. 10
drawings that probably make more sense of that. So this is a section through Smith Place. And this is what we would envision day one if Smith Place were
So this is a section through Smith Place. And this is what we would envision day one if Smith Place were left in its current alignment. I'm going to show you a
So what you're seeing here is the current width of Smith Place. The building to the right is the 10 Wilson existing building, and the sidewalk and yard. And we've
building as it would be built day one with the current alignment of Smith Place and Adley Road, even though it is a road with a street sign, it's a Private Way -- and then you
and all of the maneuvering of the trucks happens on the site, so that the trucks would enter on and off Smith Place by the same driveway that the vehicles -- the cars enter.
So this is a vision of what might happen in the future, as Smith Place is widened. You would realize the sidewalk. The elevated sidewalk along the face of the
to be at that level. You're seeing Adley Road completed and Fawcett Street completed. And we've designed the parking so that a
connection could be made off Adley Road, and a connection could be made off Fawcett Street in the future. So I'm going to pause for one second. So those were the general
We're also seeing the main lobby. There's a lobby off of Smith Place in the center of the building that goes through the building and to the back in the rear entrance.
to cooperate with the north abutter to look at the alignment of Fawcett Street. We can certainly talk about that. The quantity and spacing of the street trees, that
opportunities for collaboration -- most prominently the extension or the potential extension of Fawcett Street. As I'm sure the Board recalls, a key
ERIK THORKILDSEN: So in terms of moving farther, even father into what the Alewife District Plan is looking for, what we would really like to see is Smith Place, as
even father into what the Alewife District Plan is looking for, what we would really like to see is Smith Place, as much as possible, revised according to the section proposed
As you probably know, the property line between the two properties is about centered on Alewife -- I mean Fawcett Street. So, you know, we're basically wanting to
the two properties is about centered on Alewife -- I mean Fawcett Street. So, you know, we're basically wanting to avoid that sort of split.
that that can happen in, which is something that we have done for the 101 Cambridge Park Drive project that the Board is also in the process of reviewing.
made a lot of accommodations for the street layouts that were laid out in the Alewife District Plan, and I would hope that, you know, Smith Place could be built as much as
were laid out in the Alewife District Plan, and I would hope that, you know, Smith Place could be built as much as possible in the configuration we would like to see as this
as well as generally in line with the recommendations that are in the 101 Cambridge Park Drive memo. And then, you know, the installation of the
actually spent the summer working at the building on 10 Fawcett Street. And I can say from personal experience that it is a long trip, and not necessarily the most pleasant,
question, was, would it be advantageous to install a full signal at Smith Place and Concord Avenue at this time, or is that something that should wait until my piece of it might
not expect that this would lead to a need for a signal at Smith Place. There are also, as part of the 55 Wheeler Street project, they will be installing a signal at Fawcett
Smith Place. There are also, as part of the 55 Wheeler Street project, they will be installing a signal at Fawcett Street.
So if people were looking for a way out onto Concord Ave at a signal, they would have the option of using Fawcett Street to get there.
Concord Ave at a signal, they would have the option of using Fawcett Street to get there. I would say that, you know, looking at both this
discussions, that somewhere along the way it's highly likely that we would wind up with a signal at Smith Place and Concord Ave as well, but I don't necessarily think this is
that we would wind up with a signal at Smith Place and Concord Ave as well, but I don't necessarily think this is the project that triggers that.
H THEODORE COHEN: The -- it's not clear to me if you were recommending rebuilding the full width of Smith Place at this time in front of this parcel.
Is it possible that the city could put it in their priorities to maybe put an overlay on either Wilson Road out to Concord Avenue, so as to, you know, as we rebuild New
priorities to maybe put an overlay on either Wilson Road out to Concord Avenue, so as to, you know, as we rebuild New Street to help the new housing development down there? You
for Joe. And I just don't remember. Is there an intent for Wilson Street to connect to Fawcett Street? JOE BAR: I don't believe -- and I'm not
H THEODORE COHEN: -- a bicycle lane that was to Wheeler Street? JOE BAR: Yeah. So there's also the -- you know,
and we'll be building hopefully very soon for construction access, and then eventually as a connection to Wheeler Street.
H THEODORE COHEN: And I know there were some discussions about extending Terminal Road? JOE BAR: So yeah, there's a thought of extending
JOE BAR: So yeah, there's a thought of extending Terminal Road to connect to Wheeler Street. We actually need -- there are some studies that we need to do on that.
need -- there are some studies that we need to do on that. Wheeler Street is committed to some amount of funding to help with some of the studies and analysis.
JOE BAR: -- to do it. Yeah, you actually can travel from Wheeler Street to Terminal Road on foot. Whether you're on private property or not and trespassing, I
I guess my question is to both sides, would that work without the Fawcett Street entrance? And that's I guess probably going to go to the proponent.
and perhaps the only way of access to those condominium storage things at the end of Loomis Street that were developed and are now -- word has it are un -- presumably
opportunity presented itself, put the traffic out onto Adley Road and not have to have the curb cut on Smith Place. LOUIS J. BACCI, JR.: Yeah, it would avoid a lot
buildings in Cambridge, which is the Polaroid headquarters on Memorial Drive, which is just kind of doggedly symmetrical around a tower structure, rather than an indent.
allow increased landscaping in the back. And yes, whatever can be done to Smith Place and the other streets right now I think ought to be done. Those
I do agree that anything we can do as this building is being built to build out Smith Place fully with all the amenities, it needs to have, be they trees or street
bringing 73:13 Broadway 1:6 broken 29:11
