Public Hearings PB# 365 -- 759 Massachusetts Avenue 9 Fossil Fuel Zoning Petition 92
And next week at the Planning Board we have a continued special permit hearing on case 75-115 Smith Place, which is a project for a special permit and a permit in the
old. We've watched the gentrification of Cambridge, our city, and the transformation of Central Square. When we were kids, that corner where it's 24 hours
So this for us provides a unique opportunity. Central Square's been part of our neighborhood since we were young, and this provides us a chance to be a part of the
young, and this provides us a chance to be a part of the Central Square Business Community and continue to be a part of our neighborhood and impact our neighborhood in a
this company for a love of community, right? We embraced our community, and Central Square was our second home, as well as embracing the culture of Central Square and the
our community, and Central Square was our second home, as well as embracing the culture of Central Square and the culture that exists in Cambridge that we know and grew up
well as embracing the culture of Central Square and the culture that exists in Cambridge that we know and grew up in.
comment. We're -- GreenSoul Organics will not block any traffic on Mass Ave or Inman Street. Nor will we allow any deliveries to put bikers in any danger.
be decorated by the local artists from Street Theory. A lot of their artwork is in and around Central Square already, and I'm sure you're familiar with it.
really important, and I think it's in the best interest of Central Square. And from talking to Mike Monestime about the best
And from talking to Mike Monestime about the best vision for Central Square is how can we maintain the culture as the city grows, right? We can't stop things from
exposing new artists, but creating programs and working with the Central Square Business Association to possibly do shows and different things -- maybe an art show once a year --
relationship with them I think allows us to have a direct impact on our community. Central Square, Mokey said -- Kendall, the biggest innovation square mile, right, in the
And we're going to run our operation out of Kendall Square on 255 Main Street, and we're looking forward to really having an impact and helping those who are most
MO BARBOSA: So I'm Mo Barbosa. I currently reside as an expat at 1670 Summer Street in Newton Mass. I'm a longtime Cambridge resident, and can you hear me? Are
reside as an expat at 1670 Summer Street in Newton Mass. I'm a longtime Cambridge resident, and can you hear me? Are we all set?
We have people who walk the streets of Mass Ave in Central Square today who aren't able to work in the very places that they are passing. Now, this is something that
shop that's going to open and be great for customers in the Cambridge community, and all the folks who would be walking through Central Square anyway now have an opportunity to
Cambridge community, and all the folks who would be walking through Central Square anyway now have an opportunity to visit this business, but it also means that all the folks
KENNETH REEVES: Okay. I'm Kenneth Reeves at 340 Harvard Street. thanks.
And since I have spent a lot of my professional career looking at Central Square as a vibrant and kind of multifaceted place -- really the heart of Cambridge where
career looking at Central Square as a vibrant and kind of multifaceted place -- really the heart of Cambridge where four neighbors come together -- I think it's a very central
artwork on this façade, I just think it fulfills the dreams for excitement in Central Square in terms of just having a streetscape that is welcoming to people.
we get 500 people a day and we can redirect them to other places in Central Square and say, "We're going to text you when your order's ready" hopefully we can bring more
when your order's ready" hopefully we can bring more business to Central Square, right? The Tavern -- places down the street, go to Dunk', go get a coffee as more shops
need to micromanage the designs, I think it'll be a fine addition to Central Square, as any new retail establishment would be. So I really have no further comments.
appointment-only, but I do not specifically recall what the other Central Square locations' requirements were. STEVEN A. COHEN: Yeah. Just as an aside, it's a
I did look at the other three adult-use special permits that were approved by the Planning Board in Central Square, and they have the standard language for the Traffic,
COUNCILLOR QUINTON ZONDERVAN: Thank you. Quinton Zondervan again, 235 Cardinal Medeiros Avenue, and speaking in support of my colleagues' zoning petitions, and we did
already in affordable housing, the Finch Building. And now with the new project in Central Square that's market-rate, it's proposing to be an all-electric building.
