Incentive Zoning Amendment Petition 7 PB# 358 -- 34-40 Hampshire Street 66 PB# 339 (continued from 1/21/2020) 125
PB# 339 (continued from 1/21/2020) 125 541 Massachusetts Avenue General Business
General Business PB# 353 -- 45-51 New Street 185 BZA-017235-2019 -- 315 Columbia Street 186
PB# 353 -- 45-51 New Street 185 BZA-017235-2019 -- 315 Columbia Street 186 P R O C E E D I N G S
Then we have two special permit hearings scheduled, one is 34-36 Hampshire Street, and the second one is 541 Mass Ave.
February 25, we have two public hearings scheduled, one for 75, 109, 115 Smith Place, and then the second is a continued special permit hearing for 1686 Mass
second is continued special permit hearing for 1997 Cambridge Park Drive. In terms of items of interest from City Council,
So Ms. Farris, why don't you start us out? LEE FARRIS: Good evening. Lee Farris, 269 Norfolk Street. So I'm speaking for the Cambridge Residence
LEE FARRIS: Good evening. Lee Farris, 269 Norfolk Street. So I'm speaking for the Cambridge Residence Alliance tonight, but I want to also give a little bit more
is a public hearing on Planning Board #358 for 34-40 Hampshire Street. Do you want to kick us off here? PATRICK BARRETT: Yes, I do. My name is Patrick
I'm representing my client here, Mr. Mark Boyes-Watson and Ally Ladha for their parcel at 34 Hampshire Street. We were with you last year requesting a zoning
of logistics. The natural entry point to this building is on Hampshire Street, not Portland. Portland is more of an active area, and we feel as though by locating them closer
MARK BOYES-WATSON: Mark with a “k,” yes. From Boyes-Watson Architects, of 30 Bow Street, Somerville. Good evening. So I'm going to see if I can make everything work.
and I know that it doesn't sound optimal, and it a really weird little stretch, that tiny bit between Broadway and Hampshire. But I think concentrating those uses on that, we
of street, I agree. But I think having the access off of Hampshire Street, in terms of our sort of larger goals for how we want the streets to function is more problematic,
with that use. So on balance, I think keeping it on Portland Street, which is more of a service street at this point is
LOUIS J. BACCI, JR.: My first reason for rationale use of Hampshire Street it it's adjacent to another loading area that's quite well used. So -- and if
you do not use that side, and you do queue cars into the intersections, now we have Hampshire Street with the bike lanes, with the extra traffic, with the -- and it's a
I guess the other thing I would just say about Hampshire Street is that although you're right, there is the existing loading dock, I think over time we'd like to see,
activity, or number of curb cuts that were happening on Hampshire Street. So I totally understand the concern. I think it's
copy of our memo, but in our memo we did note that one thing we are concerned about with Portland Street is making sure that any vehicle -- any trucks that are backing out, because
those operations will happen, and we -- similar to a project in Central Square that -- we worked with Traffic and Parking in terms of determining time of use, that’s the key.
where we're thinking. The Hampshire Street, just to speak to that a little bit, we did talk to Traffic and Parking,
to the bicycle ordinance en route, to require a temporary lane going down Hampshire Street as well. We're looking into potentially designing that
it from, you know, what it looks like down Medeiros Ave, from down Medeiros Avenue, and probably from Hampshire Street.
CORINNE ESPINOZA: In your best guess, do you think that for example Hampshire Street would have a lane blocked for 18-24 months?
senior Vice-President of Development for the Davis Companies, an affiliate of the Davis Companies owns the adjacent office building, 201 Broadway.
speaker is Alex Wang. ALEX WANG: Hi, Alex Wang, W-a-n-g, 45 Market Street. I'm a 10-year resident of area. I've been working
I was reading a parking study dated November 8, their vehicle off along Hampshire Street." The valet will bring the vehicle to the parking area via a curb cut on
bring the vehicle to the parking area via a curb cut on Portland Street. The proponent is committed to ensuring that all
drop-off and pickup activity will take place in along Hampshire Street. I'm not sure if that's still the plan or not, but
of one-way streets in that area. So if you're taking a right on Portland going out to Broadway, you've got to pass Market and Hampshire, which are really one-ways in the other
right on Portland going out to Broadway, you've got to pass Market and Hampshire, which are really one-ways in the other direction.
DONALD GROSSMAN: Good evening, Donald Grossman, G-r-o-s-s-m-a-n, 179 Sidney Street. I wrote you on the twenty-first of January and followed up with a subsequent e-
A disproportionate number are domiciled next -- or near Central Square in the clinic. 29 August, 2019 Surgeon's General reports that no amount of marijuana use
Next on the list is Jacquelyn Fahey Sandell. JACQUELYN SANDELL: 8 Clinton Street. THE REPORTER: Could you spell your name, please?
everywhere, et cetera. Central Square is already extremely congested, particularly with all of the lane reductions and the bike
children taking dance lesson. There's a new charter school on Prospect Street. There's the Tae Kwon Do studio, and the list
what Tom had expected, and others had expected on the storefront in Central Square. Thank you very much. CATHERINE PRESTON CONNOLLY: Thank you. Next is
James? SASKIA JAMES: Hello. Saskia James, 251 Cottage Street, here in Cambridge. So just --
THE REPORTER: Can you spell your name, please? SASKIA JAMES: S-a-s-k-i-a. Last name is James like James Bond, 251 Garden Street. So just a few things.
SASKIA JAMES: S-a-s-k-i-a. Last name is James like James Bond, 251 Garden Street. So just a few things. One, with Rev Clinics we know that they've sued the city,
CALEB MATHIS: Caleb Mathis, C-a-l-e-b M-a-t-h-i- s, 111 South Main Street, Randolph, Massachusetts. As somebody who works in Cambridge, my biggest opposition is
also the traffic. We already know that Central Square has a whole lot of traffic. I don't know how Revolutionary Clinic is
ROBERT BARBER: Hi, my name is Robert Barber. That's R-o-b-e-r-t B-a-r-b-e-r. I live at 131 Orchard Street, Somerville. I ride the Red Line in. I work near
That's R-o-b-e-r-t B-a-r-b-e-r. I live at 131 Orchard Street, Somerville. I ride the Red Line in. I work near Kendall Square, so I walk past the site every day. I guess
PATRICK BARRETT: Thank you. Patrick Barrett. You may know me from the previous hearing. 41 Pleasant Street. I own a business and operate in Central Square. I
You may know me from the previous hearing. 41 Pleasant Street. I own a business and operate in Central Square. I think that to just add some information to this argument,
But the bigger issue that I think is we've had four recreational marijuana stores come into Central Square. They're all going to get their community host agreements,
much in the other hearings so far. Central Square is a congested area. I think you guys remember this particular site used to be the
like, when they're talking about the traffic coming to Central Square, four stores, I've heard a potential fifth one, that's a problem with the zoning in terms of buffers
I'm thinking about, okay, if you have a line, is it going to down Norfolk Street, or is it going to go along Mass Ave? Either way, it's going to be disruptive.
Either way, it's going to be disruptive. If it goes down Norfolk Street, it's going to maybe impact access for people who are trying to go down
HUGH RUSSELL: -- inside the premises, because basically any Central Square location doesn't have -- is on a busy sidewalk.
like that. So I decided to walk to the Central Square Theater for the play a couple weeks ago. And I walked -- it was on
for the play a couple weeks ago. And I walked -- it was on a Friday, which I don't usually go. And Central Square is really hopping on a Friday night.
H THEODORE COHEN: Well, I would like to remind us all that we have already improved two in Central Square, and we've dealt with the same issues of parking and queuing. It
But, you know, if there are indeed three in Central Square and one in Harvard Square, and I don't remember where the others are right at the moment that have
But, you know, looking at the map, they are on the corner of Norfolk Street. So it's conceivable. We could say they have to
fellow Board members that this is really the important issue, because as much as this does also abut Norfolk Street, so you wouldn't have to have queuing on Mass Ave,
Street, so you wouldn't have to have queuing on Mass Ave, Norfolk Street. The sidewalk is very narrow. So I think we do want to equally make sure that we're containing queuing
on the logistics plan that will put just as we have asked the other applicants in Central Square to do, to put those same kinds of plans and restrictions together.
could flip back to the plan. That's good. So right above the scale, there's an exit door that goes out on Norfolk Street. Is that useable as a means of egress?
HUGH RUSSELL: Ted, I've been looking at storefronts in Central Square, and also, in Harvard Square, but more in Central Square. And, you know, this will be
storefronts in Central Square, and also, in Harvard Square, but more in Central Square. And, you know, this will be somewhere in the large middle of kind of interesting but not
okay. I think that, you know, so there's a lot worse storefronts in Central Square, and a lot less interesting. H THEODORE COHEN: What I've been looking at in
access. Like, all businesses in Central Square, drivers may find it challenging. But the working with Traffic and
HUGH RUSSELL: We should probably note that there's a blind section on Norfolk Street that has been there for decades, possibly, since the construction of the
which we repainted, and have our sign up there. We're talking with the Central Square bid about the mural that would go there. I think it's a great idea.
CATHERINE PRESTON CONNOLLY: Do you want to do the special permit extension for 51 New Street first? JEFF ROBERTS: Yes. I thought I had it right in
JEFF ROBERTS: There were a lot of questions about how the parking was going to handled there on New Street, and it -- it seems that it's going to take some time to
JEFF ROBERTS: -- unusual compared to -- so this is a case, it's 315 Columbia Street. I think we have the applicants; they've been very patiently waiting for us to
broad 112:20 Broadway 95:13 broken 14:13
