Chair - Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler Richard Curran, 175 Richdale Avenue, stated that his wife, Sharon Hamer, died in Harvard Square on September 17, 2019. He supported safety improvements like protected bike lanes, limiting traffic to one
September 17, 2019. He supported safety improvements like protected bike lanes, limiting traffic to one lane, repainting the crosswalk markings and syncing the timing of the two traffic lights on Kennedy Street and Massachusetts Avenue. He urged the committee to ban multi-ton trucks from Harvard square.
lane, repainting the crosswalk markings and syncing the timing of the two traffic lights on Kennedy Street and Massachusetts Avenue. He urged the committee to ban multi-ton trucks from Harvard square. George Schneeloch, 81 School Street, Somerville, stated that the city should make voluntary changes, for
and Massachusetts Avenue. He urged the committee to ban multi-ton trucks from Harvard square. George Schneeloch, 81 School Street, Somerville, stated that the city should make voluntary changes, for example, setting up a truck depot so smaller trucks can make deliveries instead of bigger ones. He stated
Chair - Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler Denise Jillson, 2203 Massachusetts Avenue, Executive Director of the Harvard Square Business Association, stated that the association supported an order approved by the city council on October 2,
September 16, 2020 street, which is Market Street to traffic and allow only mass transit and special vehicles delivery. He stated that he supported making Harvard square more pedestrian oriented.
street, which is Market Street to traffic and allow only mass transit and special vehicles delivery. He stated that he supported making Harvard square more pedestrian oriented. In response to a question from Councillor Carlone, Ms. Watkins explained that a raised crosswalk
just for the weekend. In response to a question from Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler about closing Harvard Square portion of Massachusetts Avenue to truck traffic or all traffic, Mr. Barr explained that Massachusetts Avenue is a
In response to a question from Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler about closing Harvard Square portion of Massachusetts Avenue to truck traffic or all traffic, Mr. Barr explained that Massachusetts Avenue is a state route. Therefore, closures to all traffic or daytime closure to truck traffic are unlikely to be approved
state route. Therefore, closures to all traffic or daytime closure to truck traffic are unlikely to be approved by the Massachusetts Department of Transportation. He added that there was a concern about this traffic being diverted down smaller streets should this portion of Massachusetts Avenue be closed to traffic.
by the Massachusetts Department of Transportation. He added that there was a concern about this traffic being diverted down smaller streets should this portion of Massachusetts Avenue be closed to traffic. Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler moved to
