HEALTH & ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE 
 

COMMITTEE MEETING 

~ MINUTES ~ 

  Wednesday, January 22, 2020 

2:30 PM 

Sullivan Chamber 

  Meeting called to order at 2:35PM 

Attendee Name 
Quinton Zondervan 

Dennis J. Carlone 

Marc C. McGovern 

Patricia Nolan 

Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler 

Present 

Absent 

Late 

Arrived 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Health and Environment Committee will meet on January 22, 2020 at 2:30 PM to discuss the 
recommendation from the Urban Forest Master Plan Taskforce and outline potential amendment 
to the Tree Protection Ordinance, including an extension of the current moratorium. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Welcome everyone, we're going to get started. I will read the call to the meeting: The Health 
and Environment Committee will meet on January 22 to discuss the recommendation from the 
Urban Forest Master Plan Taskforce and outline potential amendment to the tree protection 
ordinance, including an extension of the current moratorium. So, we have the policy order that 
was referred by the Council a week and a half ago, that includes an extension of the 
moratorium. And then we'll also hear a little bit from the Department of Public Works about the 
Urban Forest Master Plan Task Force process and the recommendations that came out from 
that. And the plan is to forward the moratorium extension back to the Council for a vote on that, 
and then we'll have follow up meetings of this committee to further dig into the Urban Forest 
Master Plan Task Force recommendations. So with that, I'd like to welcome my colleagues and 
the staff and the public, thank you for being here. And I'm joined by fellow committee members 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler and Councillor Nolan, and the Department of Public Works. So 
with that, I'll hand it over to you. 
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan   
Thank you. Since this is my first committee meeting of this body, what is the general process, 
and I assume we'll hear from the public? Just how will it unfold and what's the order of business 
just so that I can understand? Maybe I should know that already, but I don't. So I would 
appreciate some forgiveness for me, ensuring that I understand the process as we move 
forward. Thank you. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Yes, thank you, Councillor Nolan for asking and my apologies for not explaining that better. So 
the rough agenda for this meeting is that we'll hear from Department of Public Works, we'll ask a 
few clarifying questions only, we won't have any debates. Then we'll hear from the public. And 
then we'll come back to the committee for further discussion and final actions.Thank you. 
 
 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 1 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

DPW Commissioner Owen O'Riordan   
Okay, thank you very much, Mr. Chair, perhaps I should introduce the other members of DPW 
staff that are here today. So to my left, Catherine Daly Woodbury, Catherine was the project 
manager associated with the Urban Forestry Master Plan, which is still ongoing. And then I've 
Andrew Putnam. Andrew is the Superintendent of Urban Forestry at the Department of Public 
Works. On the desk behind, John Nardone. John is the Deputy Commissioner of the 
Department of Public Works. David Lefcourt. David is the City Arborist. And then we have Abby 
Bentley. Abby has just recently come on board, and Abby is the Assistant City Arborist with the 
Department of Public Works. And so I think that's us in terms of the Department of Public Works 
at this point in time. So we have a presentation that we will go through in a few minutes, but 
perhaps for the benefit of the new Councillors, it might be worthwhile providing some context 
associated with how we got to where we are at this point in time. Perhaps the best place to start 
is back in 2009, when UVM working with the city conducted a LiDAR flyover of the city. In other 
words, a remote sensing of the city's canopy at that point in time, and estimated that about the 
30% of the city had tree canopy at that point in time. They then did a similar flyover or the 
similar flyover was conducted in 2014 and they conducted an analysis after that, and indicated 
that in terms of the overall area of the city, that the canopy had been reduced by 2%, or specific 
to the actual canopy that had been there in 2009, was equivalent to about 7.8% loss in canopy 
between 2009 and 2014. They then conducted another study on the basis of a flyover that was 
conducted in April of 2018. On this occasion, the canopy was indicated to be just less than 26%. 
So, a further reduction in the canopy scale. And again, equivalent to about 17.8% reduction in 
canopy between 2009 and 2018. At this point in time, 17.8% specific to the canopy that existed 
in 2009. Going back, you know, I think City Council became concerned about this in 2016. 
There were there was a hearing held in 2016. The primary focus at that point in time was on 
what was the city doing in terms of its own design standards, its own practices in terms of 
maintaining the canopy that is by ordinance required to manage in the city. And so there was a 
significant focus on our practices in terms of planting and maintaining our trees and indeed, the 
processes associated with the taking down of public shade trees in accordance with chapter 87 
of state law. Then as time moved along, I think there was an increased understanding that a lot 
of trees that we're losing were not on the public right-of-way. And so I think people became 
more concerned about that. And in early 2018, there were hearings about setting up a task force 
to begin to look at this. And so we hired a consultant team, Reed Hildebrand early in 2018. And 
a task force was brought together, consisting of 18 people from different parts of the community. 
I think one of the more significant issues that emerged from those early meetings associated 
with the task force was the fact that a significant amount of the canopy was being lost on 
residential property. In fact, the vast majority of canopy loss was on private property. There's 
loss across all land uses in the city, but a significant amount of it was on private property. And 
the most significant of all was on residential private property. In early 2019, there was a hearing 
that was held at the Health and Environment Committee, where there was a proposal to institute 
an amendment to the existing Tree Protection Ordinance to impact the taking down of trees on 
private property. Previous to this, the Tree Protection Ordinance which was ordained initially in 
2005, spoke specifically to development projects: large special private projects and projects in 
excess of 25,000 square feet. And so the request was to extend that to cover all properties. And 
specifically what it came to mean in terms of this passage was that no permits would be issued 
to anyone in the city outside those associated with special permits and large projects unless the 
tree was dead or dangerous, unless there was significant emergency (and we can get into the 
details of what that meant). Utility projects, there were projects associated with other 
environmental concerns, or indeed if there was an instance where a structure might be 
impacted. So over a period of I would say maybe a month and a half, it was a relatively short 
period of time, we came back to City Council with an amendment to the Tree Protection 
Ordinance together with a body of regulations. And so those have been in effect for about the 

City of Cambridge 

Page 2 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

last 11 months. Those will sunset on February 25 of this year. And so I guess one of the things 
that you have to make a determination about is whether or not that should extend. In terms of 
the Urban Forestry Master Plan and Task Force, you know, we have in front of us here and I 
think there's a copy online and we give you hard copies of this. This is a 280 page Urban 
Forestry Master Plan Technical Report. It is online. There is another 750 pages of this 
document in appendices. I would say this is an extraordinarily comprehensive report. It took a 
lot longer for us to complete it than we initially thought, but I think at the outset we said this is 
going to be a data-driven science-based community engagement project. And I think this 
document is true to that, in that there is an enormous amount of data analysis incorporated in 
this. I think the recommendations that are provided for in this as well, are science-based and 
also come out of a lot of the interactions that were had, both with the task force and with the 
community through three community meetings.  We met on 12 occasions with the task force. I 
think everybody in the task force was hugely committed and extraordinarily knowledgeable. And 
like I said, represented all elements of the community. I think given the scope of this project, my 
sense is that we brought this back to the task force in early December, for their consideration in 
terms of prioritizing some aspects of this in terms of policy and practice and design and so forth. 
Quite truthfully, I think it may have been too early for us to actually glean everything that we 
could glean from the task force at that point in time. And, it very much depends on the will of the 
City Council but our wish would be that we could go back to the Task Force for one additional 
meeting, so as to be able to further filter through all of those aspects of this associated with 
permitting specifically that the task force fields are most important, and put those in front of you. 
And we would do that in early February, again, with the blessing of City Council. We would not 
do this unless we had the blessing of City Council to do it. And I do think that if indeed we can 
move this reasonably rapidly through the task force again, you know, last year it took us maybe 
I would say, four or five weeks to actually amend the existing ordinance and put an amendment 
together. We'd certainly commit to being as quick as we possibly can and putting changes to the 
existing ordinances together so that we could have something in place for late spring, early 
summer. I recognize that we had committed to get this done earlier than we ultimately got it 
done. But I think it's not because we slowed down and didn't commit resources to it. I think quite 
the opposite. I think we committed a lot lot more than we ever anticipated committing to this, 
and so I would ask for some latitude in terms of your sense as to us being late with regard to 
this document. Also, in terms of extending the existing amendment, I would, I think we would be 
in favor of an extension of the existing amendment. I don't think it would necessarily need to be 
extended for a long period of time, but I think given the commitment that the community and the 
task force have given to this, and also your instruction to us last year with the amendment that 
was excuses, it's important that we'd be able to report back to you in terms of recommendations 
in the not too distant future. And again, that would be our commitment that we will try and get a 
recommendation back to you sooner rather than later. So with that, perhaps we should get into 
a little bit more detailed presentation. And then could ask Catherine and Andrew to help me go 
through this. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thank you, Owen. 
 
DPW Commissioner Owen O'Riordan   
Okay, so we'll just talk a little bit about the amendment for a second. And again, what it did was, 
it basically said that specific to tree removal on properties not associated with special permits or 
large projects, people would be required to get permits from the Department of Public Works if 
they expected to take down trees on those properties. However, for a period of one year, we 
would not issue permits unless a tree was either dead or dangerous, or there was an 
emergency circumstance (and we describe that in more detail in the regulations), where a 

City of Cambridge 

Page 3 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

significant utility project was be undertaken with state or federal regulations or programs 
associated with it, city park projects where there were, again community engagement in 
advance of that, or in instances where the canopy would benefit from the removal of a number 
of trees so that perhaps native trees would grow that much more healthier. And then instances 
where a tree would impact a structure. And again this is all associated with significant trees. 
Significant trees were defined as trees that have DBH in excess of eight inches. And so that 
was ordained in February of last year, and became effective on March 11 of last year. And 
again, this goes to again significant trees over eight inches in DBH. Again, a one year restriction 
for significant tree removal with exception of those instances that I've already spelled out to you. 
And then there were specific mitigations put in place for people who had residential tax 
exemptions in the city. So for people who had residential tax exemptions, the mitigation fee that 
they would have to pay, if indeed they felt that they had to remove a tree without a permit, would 
be 10% of the replacement cost, as determined by the existing City of Cambridge contract. The 
existing contracts in the city, when we purchase a two inch tree, we pay $1700 dollars for that 
tree. And so we basically said it is $850 per inch you would have to pay the city, and that money 
will go into a tree fund. But if you're a resident with a residential exemption, you would only have 
to pay 10% of the cost. And if you are someone who is receiving financial assistance, federal 
financial assistance, there would be no cost for you in that instance. And then for all others, you 
would have to pay full replacement costs associated with that tree. And so its been in existence 
for the past year. Immediately before it became effective, we sent out a postcard to every 
resident in the city. And this is a copy of that postcard and again, just going through the same 
details. And I think this was effective. We also obviously used social media. We contacted all 
the landscapers in the area, all of the arborists in the area. And so our feeling was that, you 
know, we sent this out to 41,000 households at a significant cost to the city. But we felt that we 
had done a good amount of outreach before this became effective. And quite frankly, I don't 
think that we have had many instances where people were ignorant in terms of what happened 
in terms of the ordinance changes after this point in time. Again, the existing amendment 
terminates the 25th of February 2020. And I know that there's a proposal to extend that for the 
full of this year at this point in time. That was proposed at last City Council meeting. So just 
specific to the requirements associated with this, I know there's been some concern in the 
community about how onerous this is. We require, if you're going to take a tree down, we 
require an arborist to certify that the tree is dead or dangerous. That means there is a 
certification that they have to sign. They also have to complete an ISA tree risk assessment 
relative to that tree. For emergency circumstances we need those described by the property 
owner, and in terms of utility projects, we have to describe in detail as to what's required in that 
instances. I know that there's been some concern in the community about the cost of bringing 
an arborist on-site. And we can talk a little bit more about that as we move through today's 
conversation. Andrew, do you want to talk a little bit about the permits that we've received and 
so on? 
 
Andrew Putnam, Superintendent of Urban Forestry and Landscape   
So we took the time to go through all of the permit applications and flush out multiple 
applications that were either applied for under the wrong category or rejected because either 
they didn't meet the requirements or the application was incomplete. And so spending that time, 
we found that there's been a grand total of 347 permits issued out of 366, meaning that 19 were 
denied and you can see sort of the breakdown where dead or dangerous are about 76% of the 
approved applications, and for emergency circumstances 2%. City park projects make up about 
10%. The healthy canopy 6%. Poses significant negative impact on an adjacent structure is 3%, 
and significant utility infrastructure projects is about 3%. And then the reasons that most of them 
were denied was because the application was incomplete so either we didn't have, from our 
administrative point of view, all of the necessary documentation required to approve the permit, 

City of Cambridge 

Page 4 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

and then the applicant never followed up with us or just simply did not meet the category 
requirements, and so it was rejected, which is 37%. And did not reapply as they were in the 
incorrect category and then never followed up. Typically that is if we have a discussion with 
either the arborist or the homeowner and sort of describe the parameters for getting approved 
for a permit and they realize that their tree doesn't actually qualify so then they don't follow up 
with a permit. And this is just sort of anecdotal community feedback from residents, whether it's 
through talking to them on the phone or other people. So the majority of residents do 
understand that Cambridge is trying to protect trees through this ordinance, and some of the 
other additional pros are that residents and property owners are learning that pruning for 
clearance along their buildings can be an appropriate alternative to removals. I've heard of a 
few different circumstances where construction has been redesigned or additions have been 
changed to preserve trees that didn't qualify for a removal permit. There's also a couple 
instances where it sparked discussions among neighbors about tree preservation. A new 
property owner had bought a piece of property and was going to pave a backyard, and through 
the neighbors reaching out to see if this tree qualified for a permit it started a discussion with the 
new property owner who then changed that design layout to actually preserve that tree. And 
then also, we'll get into it a little bit more on the next slide, but practicing arborists working within 
the city are fairly supportive of the amendment. Some cons that we've heard, the primary one so 
far is that the current amendment does not allow for replanting to offset mitigation. So even if a 
plan were to replace more caliper DBH inches than the tree that's coming down in the final step, 
there is no language that allows for a permit to be issued under that they would still have to pay 
the mitigation through the payment through a fine. There is no protection for tree roots or 
aggressive pruning under the current amendment, so in theory, an abutting property owner 
could do a significant amount of damage to tree roots that would eventually lead to killing a tree. 
Same with aggressive pruning, that's some feedback we've had from abutting property owners 
and residents in the city. There is no language that allows for the removal of invasive species, or 
species perceived as to be invasive. So it's a blanket application and it just refers to the canopy 
and trees and not specific species. Some feedback also is the cost of the arborist assessment 
specifically in regards to having a dead tree removed and an arborist coming out to make that 
determination. And then just some other anecdotal phone conversations, somewhat short 
conversations with people who said that well, I will just wait until it sunsets and then we'll 
proceed with the removals that we have planned. And then we spoke with some practicing 
arborists in the area to kind of get an idea of what a range of prices may be for a resident in the 
city to apply for a permit. And we found that the range of tree care companies could charge 
between $250 to $300 to do a site visit and the online permit application. The residents 
themselves can apply for the permit on their own, they just need the documentation from the 
certified arborist. A consulting arborist can charge $600 to $800 per tree and will adjust their 
price accordingly if it's a multiple tree assessment on the property, Some tree care companies 
charge $50 to $150 to visit a site to notify the property if it even would meet the requirements 
from first glance. So if they come on the property, they'll come on the property for $50 to $150 to 
say, yes, a tree is dead, I'll fill out a permit and it will most likely be approved because it is dead. 
And then if that's the case, they'll charge the remaining balance, which on average was that 
$250 to $300. So that just sort of illustrates that that the range $50 to $150 for that first 
determination, is the tree dead or dangerous and will it actually get approved for a permit in the 
arborist's professional opinion. And again, this was sort of covered in the previous slide but 
most residents understand why the city has enacted the tree ordinance. And after the practicing 
arborist explain that reasoning to them, some still obviously complain about the amendment for 
different reasons. And some say they'll wait until the ordinance expires. 
 
DPW Commissioner Owen O'Riordan   

City of Cambridge 

Page 5 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

Okay, so just back to the Urban Forestry Master Plan and the task force. And so the task force 
started meeting in June of last year. The first meeting was in June 2018, a year and a half ago I 
beg your pardon. And there were 18 taskforce members, again, representing different 
communities in the city: institutional members, members from different neighborhoods, people 
of different backgrounds, race, and so on and so forth. And we felt that we had a really strong, 
knowledgeable group of people who were very committed to working with us on this. Again, they 
met 12 times during 2018 and 2019, and provided a lot of input to the consultant team. And 
again, a very large consultant team, given the fact that there was a lot of analysis that was done 
by arborists, soil scientists, landscape architects, engineers, and so on. And I think, you know, 
the interaction of the task force with the team significantly shaped this report and I think 
something that they should be very, very proud of in terms of what has been born as a result of 
that effort. Again, we also had three public meetings, there was a Health and Environment 
Committee presentation that was made in November of last year. Together with a presentation 
that was made before CPAC earlier this year. In terms of just some of the strategies associated 
with curbing loss and growing the canopy, in chapter four of this document, it goes through that 
in great detail. And we're happy to spend time talking about that perhaps at a subsequent 
meeting, because I do think that there's a lot that can be discussed associated with various 
strategies here. But just in summary, again, there are 19 policy strategies, a lot of those 
associated with ordinances. There are design and practice strategies that we at the Department 
of Public Works will certainly look to incorporate in much of what we do. And then I think one of 
the areas that we feel very strongly about addressing moving forward is outreach and 
education. And I think we'd also say public engagement. It's our expectation in terms of 
community outreach, that we would meet with different communities in the city over the next 
year and work with a consultant team so as to allow people to understand in more detail, the 
appropriate trees to grow in the city, the value of trees in terms of clean air, clean water, carbon 
sequestration, and so on, so forth. And just to increase the prominence of trees in terms of 
urban infrastructure in the city and their importance as we move into a period where climate 
change is going to become a more significant and difficult reality for us. And so, again, we'll be 
more than happy to talk to these at a subsequent meeting. I want to have our consultants 
necessary for those if that's what is necessary. I think one of the challenges for us moving 
forward, and for the City Council, in terms of discouraging tree removals is that can act against 
encouraging planting subsequent to that. And so trying to make sure that we balance our 
strategy so that we encourage people to plant more trees, while at the same time trying to 
protect the existing canopy is something that is a real challenge to grapple with. And I think one 
of the errors that we made last year, quite frankly, in the amendment that was ultimately voted 
on was that for those people who are taking down trees in their property, we did not allow them 
mitigate that loss with the planting of new trees and that's something certainly we've taken to 
heart over the last year. We recognize that a tree canopy is a cyclical thing, tree canopies 
decrease and then go back up again because it's just the nature of tree loss and growth and so 
on. And so we want to encourage, where possible, for further tree planting. Even if it's not on 
the person's in their on their private property, maybe it's in their neighbor's private property. We 
are committed to increasing the extent to which we're planting trees and taking care of trees in 
the city. And that will continue to grow over the next number of years. It's challenging for us, as 
a Department of Public Works and indeed as a city, to legislate for people planting on their 
property. We recognize that and so that's where outreach and education and perhaps other 
financial mechanisms are appropriate so as to provide for that. And that's something that we 
again, we'd like to talk about a trust at sometime in the future that could provide private finances 
toward planting on private property. There is an allowance in Chapter 87 at this point in time of 
the state law that provides for the city planting on private property within 20 feet of the public 
right-of-way. However, if someone wants to take that tree down subsequent to it being planted, 
they are subject to a public tree hearing, so that serves to discourage people as well. But again, 

City of Cambridge 

Page 6 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

I think there are other ways to tackle this as we move forward. And again, these are some of the 
more significant strategies. I think a significant tree up now has been defined as 8 inches DBH 
or larger. I think for most communities within the immediate area and across the country, six 
inches is generally the standard there and I think it's worthwhile having a look at that. We can 
provide you more data in terms of the number of trees that one would then immediately have 
under the jurisdiction of an amendment that that changed from an 8 to a 6 inch DBH. Again, we 
want to strengthen the Back of the Sidewalk problem, perhaps not using city funds, but perhaps 
using private funds or perhaps using mitigation funds in a different way. Again, to the same 
effect, using community grants to encourage people to plant trees in their property. Using 
nonprofits in the city that perhaps could work with us to to encourage that. We want to again 
review the mitigation costs, because I do think that residential neighbors feel that it's punitive. 
I'm not sure we fully agree with that but I do think there's a conversation that should be had 
there. Again, I think it's a benefit that the Tree Protection Ordinance extends to all properties, 
not just to large development but rather to residential properties, given the fact that a significant 
majority of our trees are on private property and a significant amount of the loss over the last 10 
years has been on residential property. And then I think one of, you know, again, we've 
increased our staff over the last couple of years. And we recognize that there's more rigor 
required in terms of inspecting the large development. They commit to planting trees and so on, 
then we go out and we inspect that prior to Certificates of Occupancy being issued for those 
projects. And that's something that we're committed to doing as well, if indeed it is the will of 
City Council that be incorporated in a subsequent ordinance. And again, this is just further 
exemplifying that.  I think our expectation is obviously we will always provide for dead or 
dangerous trees be removed. The arborist evaluation can be reduced somewhat for a dead 
tree. We at this point in time require people to complete an ISA assessment, which provides 
rigor, but if a tree is dead, perhaps that's not necessary and so we can reduce that and reduce 
the cost to the homeowner on that basis. We do want to have a permit on file. Again, we set up 
an electronic system of permitting last year. We think that's been successful. I think there was 
some problems at the outset for our arborists, but they've all become used to that over the last 
five or six months. And so that doesn't seem to be a problem. And, again, the idea of perhaps a 
replacement tree being offered to a neighbor who takes the tree down is something that's worth 
considering. There are anti-aid issues that we need to work out with our Law Department 
around this issue, but we're in conversation with them as well about that. And again, just 
removal strategies, like I said, if you can't remove it on your own property, perhaps you can 
plant it on a neighbor's property who would like to have a tree. That's something that we would 
certainly be open to. The idea of a replacement tree is something that we would also be open 
to. And again, not all trees need to be treated equally. Maybe perhaps we need special 
protections for larger trees, for exceptional trees in the city. And something that I think it's worth 
thinking about: a 30 inch tree with a large canopy, it's equivalent to eight smaller trees. And so 
you lose one of those larger trees, it has a profound impact on the canopy and indeed in the 
neighborhood potentially. And again, this is just a further exemplify that. And then again, from 
our perspective, it's just a question of, it was a sensitivity in terms of process, you know, we can 
have a simple process or a complex process, I think we'd like to start with something that's 
relatively simple. You know, we have been discussing all of these various strategies with the 
Urban Forestry Master Plan Task Force. I think in terms of making this understandable to the 
residential community, it needs to be relatively straightforward. I think the other thing that should 
be noted that there's a difference between replacement cost and the inherent value of a tree. 
You know, if I look at the inherent value of a tree, for example, we lost a tree on Gore Street 
maybe a year and a half ago when the gas company took down that tree. That tree's value was 
something in the order of $60,000. That's the inherent value of the tree. When we talk about 
replacement costs, as of now, we're not talking about that cost, we lose that value and so some 
level of replacement mitigation as it should be required, but it doesn't equate to the inherent 

City of Cambridge 

Page 7 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

value of that tree. And again, this is the balance of trying to encourage planting and discourage 
removal and how do we continue to achieve that balance? I think that's about it for us for the 
moment. Thank you. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thank you very much. I do want to welcome some colleagues who have joined us, Mayor 
Siddiqui, Vice Mayor Mallon, and committee member, Councillor McGovern. I do want to thank 
DPW as well. I know this amendment process has been a little bit arduous and was executed 
quite rapidly. And I think it's been very successful considering the short time frame that we had 
to implement it. And thank you again for this presentation and for the update on how it's been 
working in our community so far. So at this point, I'll open it up to my colleagues for clarifying 
questions only. We're not discussing or debating yet we're just asking any questions of the staff 
about their presentation. Councillor Nolan? 
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan   
This is just clarifying questions, right? Not discussion. Okay. So I wanted to make sure that I 
understood the chart. The 366 applications, only 5% of people who applied to take down a tree 
were denied a permit and most of them were denied simply because they didn't complete the 
application. Is that correct? That's the entire universe of people during the time of this 
moratorium, who applied was the 366. And only 5% of them were denied. And most of that 5% 
was just they didn't complete the application. Just want to make sure we're clear on that, 
because it looks like pretty much nobody was denied who completed a full application. 
 
Andrew Putnam, Superintendent of Urban Forestry and Landscape   
Yeah, that percentage is correct. And then it's about 60% were incomplete application, and then 
almost 40% were just didn't meet the requirements. 
 
Vice Mayor Alanna Mallon   
And that's only 5% of the whole applications. Correct. Okay. Then the other question, at the 
end, when you talk about all the suggestions for an eventual ordinance, that's not for immediate 
adoption that would be for when the ordinance is rewritten over the course of the next, as you 
said it could be expedited, maybe four to six weeks, but that it would be during that expedited 
process that's the kind of thing you see yourself building on, the Urban Forestry Master Plan, to 
be included in the new ordinance. Okay. 
 
DPW Commissioner Owen O'Riordan   
Yes, that's correct Councillor. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thank you. Just to follow on on that, I believe what I heard the commissioner say is that they 
could turn around specific recommendations to us in about four to five weeks, but of course it's 
up to us as the council how long it takes us to amend the ordinance fully. Councillor Sobrinho-
Wheeler?  
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
We talked a little about the fines and the enforcement side which is a question I had. How many 
times were there folks who were fined for being in violation of the ordinance in this time period? 
 
Andrew Putnam, Superintendent of Urban Forestry and Landscape   
There's been a total of four. Two were for transparent, you know, the contractor or homeowner 
came to us and applied for the permit that then we rejected and they took it down and they paid 

City of Cambridge 

Page 8 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

the mitigation costs. And then early on when the program started, we responded to two reports 
of people taking them down and issued them the violation. 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
That's one of my questions, thinking through more is the enforcement piece. I mean, we can get 
into more in the discussion, but just if it's sort of relying on folks reporting, then I think there's 
studies that show the lower income parts of the city are less likely to sort of proactively report 
and so thinking about, you know, whether it's ISD, or something else that could help with the 
enforcement, there's something I think we need to think through. And then I just had one other 
question about the Urban Forestry Master Plan. It is a great report, I really appreciate it and the 
graphs and maps are really helpful, and the fact that 72% of tree loss is on private property is 
really interesting and useful. I was wondering if there was any breakdown in the report by 
ownership size, of whether that loss on private property is owner-occupied homes or whether it's 
buildings owned by asset management companies, or if there's any sense of sort of ownership? 
 
DPW Commissioner Owen O'Riordan   
Through you, Mr. Chair. Councillor, we did try to further investigate as to why trees were taken 
down on private property. And we looked at three different circumstances. We tried to see if 
there was a correlation between lost impervious area and tree loss. And that would to some 
extent perhaps represent either the person putting a driveway or putting an extension on their 
property. Or there was infill development happening on their property. We also looked at 
building permits and tree loss, and we looked at changes in ownership in properties, I think that 
was it, I think. And so there was no great correlation that we found between those three, now we 
haven't looked at the size of the property, or indeed, again, building premits perhaps might be 
similar to that, which you were thinking about in terms of development and so on. And again, 
there wasn't a significant correlation there between those, as far as we could tell. And again, 
we're looking at sort of a sparse amount of information over a short period of time. And so 
perhaps over a longer period of time, we might find that there is a greater correlation there then 
we could actually identify in the work that we did. 
 
Councillor Patty Nolan   
That would be great and i'd be really interested in seeing that analysis to just understand if, you 
know, it's one particular ownership company that has a couple hundred units and they're sort of 
going around, you know, taking trees down on all their properties and that would be useful both 
from an enforcement side I think, and then from a policy side, to sort of tailor if we knew it was 
more, you know, owner-occupied single family homes, or someone who owns, you know, a 
hundred triple deckers cutting down a tree at each of their properties. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thanks. Just follow on that, part of the purpose of putting in this amendment separate from the 
moratorium was so that we would be able to start gathering that information because prior to 
that amendment being in effect, we had really no information about who's cutting down trees 
and why. And I believe, as the commissioner explained, we will likely get a recommendation to 
maintain the permitting requirement, so that we'll be able to track better who was applying to 
remove trees and why. Any other questions from my colleagues? Vice Mayor? 
 
Vice Mayor Alanna Mallon   
Thank you, Mr. Chair, through you to the Commissioner. Thanks for this presentation, I know it 
was not originally on the agenda so thank you for pulling it together, and thanks to the chair for 
allowing this hearing to happen today. I have a couple of questions. One, just going back to the 
Back of the Sidewalk Program and trying to strengthen that. You mentioned something about 

City of Cambridge 

Page 9 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

how, and I've heard this too, if we want to strengthen that program, all of a sudden, you know, 
we buy the tree, we plant it, and then it's their problem in the future, right? Like if they'd wanted 
to take it down or if somehow the roots were growing into their structure, all of the things that we 
identified as exceptions, right? It would then become their issue to remove that tree? 
 
DPW Commissioner Owen O'Riordan   
Councillor, as matters stand, if the city were to plant a tree on private property within 20 feet of 
the right-of-way, it's the owners tree, but if the owner wants to take that tree down, that tree is 
subject to a public hearing, if it's planted within 20 feet of the right-of-way. That's covered by 
Chapter 87 I think section three of state law at this point in time, if public finances are involved. 
So we have been looking at ways around that so that there's people have more discretion with 
what they do with the tree on their property. Given that we want to encourage people to plant 
back of sidewalk trees. And so the question is whether or not those mitigation funds that come 
in from development could be used, in other words, can they be identified as not municipal 
funds and be directly transferred to entities who would then encourage planting on private 
property. And so they would not become then subject to Chapter 87 of state law. That's 
something that we're continuing to investigate. Or indeed if there was a trust that was setup with 
private funding, could the trust working with nonprofits or whomever encourage people to plant 
trees on back of sidewalks or areas. And again, those would not be subject to Chapter 87. And 
let me further clarify that. That's a tree hearing. The fact that you have a tree hearing doesn't 
mean that you can't take your tree down. It's just that you're subject to public process around 
that. There have been many instances, as you know, where we've had tree hearings, and 
people have objections to the tree coming down, but the tree eventually comes down. And so 
we could think about perhaps a set of rules that could manage that, but they'd still be subject to 
a tree hearing. 
 
Vice Mayor Alanna Mallon   
Thank you. And just one more question about that, who would be responsible for the cost of 
taking that down, through a tree company, in that situation and scenario? 
 
DPW Commissioner Owen O'Riordan   
In all probability, that would be the private property owner. If indeed the private property owner 
wanted the trees out, then the private owner would be responsible for taking it down. So if the 
private property owner agreed in the first place to have a tree planted by the city within 20 feet 
of the right-of-way, 10-15 years later said, you know, I'm fed up with this tree, it's disturbing me, 
I've got leaves in my yard every fall, I can't do it anymore. And they want to take it down. They 
would have to have a public hearing and then given the way the rules are written today, they 
would be responsible for taking it out. 
 
Vice Mayor Alanna Mallon   
Okay, so given that we are trying to encourage people to do this type of planting and there is a 
greater opportunity for us to increase the tree canopy through this Back of Sidewalk Program, 
will there be recommendations from your team, and from the the task force, in the four to five 
week window? Like will we be able to review your recommendations based on this, based on 
maybe having mitigation funds that can be used to pay for this or some kind of trust, like, will 
that be in the next four to five weeks? Or is that kind of down the road? 
 
DPW Commissioner Owen O'Riordan   
So Councillor, my expectation is that in the next four to five weeks, we will provide you 
recommendations associated with the taking down of trees on private property. In terms of 
encouraging the planting of trees on private property moving forward, that is further down the 

City of Cambridge 

Page 10 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

road. That's a separate matter that we would like to have further discussion on, but just in terms 
of the amendment so as to preserve canopy by reducing the number of trees that are taken 
down on private property, that's something that we've committed to try and get back to you as 
soon as we possibly could. 
 
Vice Mayor Alanna Mallon   
Okay, thank you. And I have one more question. On this slide where it says in all cases, always 
allow removal of dead or hazardous trees. This is something that will be a recommendation? Or 
this is, it says get arborist evaluation, file permit. This is part of the ordinance now? 
 
DPW Commissioner Owen O'Riordan   
So Councillor, that's provided for in today's ordinance. And so we would continue to provide for 
that in the future. I think one of the things that we've been looking at, given the fact that we've 
heard from neighbors saying, look, my tree is obviously dead. Why do I need to bring an arborist 
on-site and have them complete this two-page detailed summary of the condition of the tree? 
What we would say is that I think we still want to be rigorous. And so we still want a professional 
to say the tree is dead. But you do not need to go beyond that and complete this. And so if you 
look at the scale of cost, you can get an arborist out on-site for $150 perhaps, rather than the 
$300 that is required to do all of the auxillary work. So we will try and simplify that the extent that 
we can, but I do think that it's still extremely important that there be rigor. If you vote to continue 
to have an amendment, it's important I think that it be robust enough to be able to withstand 
frivolous circumstances that might rise for people who want to take trees down. And it's your 
word against mine that it's a dead tree or not. I do think that we need a certain amount of rigor 
associated with this moving forward. But I think we can reduce the cost to the homeowner, 
recognizing that there have been concerns expressed around that. 
 
Vice Mayor Alanna Mallon   
So thank you for that. And just to speak to some of the concerns that you've heard, we've heard, 
around this Tree Protection Ordinance and how it is. When you have a dead tree on your 
property, it's obviously dead, I'm just wondering if, you know, we are going to get a 
recommendation four to five weeks, it is going to take us a little bit of time to work through the 
Ordinance Committee hearing and then go through the City Council process. Is there something 
that we could do in amending what we have right now, in between now and when we have a full 
recommendations from the task force, and put together a whole recommendation to think about 
just in this case, right. So that you have to get the arborist evaluation, and I understand we're 
reducing the cost to $150 so they don't have to go through the rest of that process, but could we 
use our city arborist to get that? I'm speaking to your rigor piece, right. Like we don't want 
people willy-nilly taking down trees, this is the whole point of this. But at the same time if you 
have an obviously dead tree on your property, amending or doing something in the interim, 
between now and when we fully update this to be even more rigorous, and speak to some of the 
other concerns. Is there something that we can do now in terms of dead or hazardous trees to 
reduce the barriers and costs for homeowners on something that is clearly dead and going to 
come down? I just want to try to speak to some of the concerns that we've been hearing. And 
you know, I know everybody is worried that this is going to go on until the end of 2020, and 
that's not the case. We've heard that today. However, it could be six months from now. Right? 
So if I have a dead tree in my yard, and between now, and six months from now, perhaps there 
could be something we could be doing differently? I know, I'm sorry. Go ahead. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Sorry. Maybe if we can defer that to the discussion session, because that's not really a clarifying 
question. We're getting into a little bit of policy debate. Councillor McGovern? 

City of Cambridge 

Page 11 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
Thank you. Through you, Mr. Chair. So maybe I can phrase that in a question, because I had a 
similar. when I was looking at the list of, I guess it's on page five of the handout, I don't know 
what slide it is but, of the cons. You know, two that have been brought up to me mostly have 
been the cost of the arborist assessment. So I know that was discussed last year when we were 
talking about, could the city go on private property and do that? And there were some so, so I 
guess in framing that in a question, is that something the city can start doing because that has 
been a concern that's been raised? And then the other was the not allowing removal of invasive 
species. And I told this story at the last City Council meeting where I was talking to someone in 
West Cambridge who said that his neighbor had an invasive species, wanted to cut the tree 
down, could not, wasn't allowed to. The tree ended up falling on his roof, not on the owner's 
roof, but on the neighbor's roof, costing tens of thousands of dollars worth of damage. And, you 
know, if he had been allowed to cut that tree down, that wouldn't have happened. So I guess 
there are two questions. One is can we do something to alleviate the cost? And secondly, would 
allowing the removal of invasive species completely undermine this policy? Would it be 
negligible? Why wouldn't we include it? 
 
DPW Commissioner Owen O'Riordan   
So maybe to the first clarifying question that you both asked. And so I think we've already 
committed to revisiting this. I think we stated last year in the latter that we had sent with the 
proposed amendments to the ordinance that we did not want city arborists assessing private 
property trees. And there is a liability issue that we are concerned about with regard to that, and 
arborists unless invited are not allowed on private property. Surveyors are one of the few 
professionals working for a community that are allowed. I think the liability issue is a significant 
one. So it's all well and good saying an arborist goes out on-site and he makes a determination 
that a tree is dead. But there are many instances, some of them that may be frivolous, where 
people will say, Look, let me just get an arborist out here, let's just have a go, let's take a 
chance at it. We want to do something or other we want to get rid of this tree. And so we might 
be caught in instances where the tree is obviously alive, but people are just trying to see if they 
can get rid of the tree. There's also an instance where the arborist in his professional opinion 
says I think this tree is not dead. And then there's a windstorm the day afterwards and the tree 
falls on a house. And then the city then has perhaps some liability based on his professional 
opinion. And so there's real concern about that. But I mean, we can go back and talk in more 
detail with our Law Department about this, because there may be ways around that. But I'm not 
the person to speak to the liability issues and indemnification issues that inevitably arise when 
we talk about us working on private property. But I'm happy to further that conversation with the 
Law Department and get maybe perhaps a more comprehensive response back to you. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
Before you answer the invasive species question. So I mean, I would also think, you know, I 
don't know this for sure. But I would hope we could work something out. I would trust the city a 
little bit more to make that determination. If I'm a private arborist, who is going to, you know, 
make an assessment and then further get paid to remove a tree, I have a financial incentive to 
maybe declare something dead that may not be dead. Or, you know, maybe, encourage or I 
would trust the city that doesn't have a financial stake in the game maybe to make that 
determination. And then just the invasive species question, is there a reason we wouldn't allow 
for those to be removed? 
 
 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 12 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

DPW Commissioner Owen O'Riordan   
You know, I think in terms of invasive species, obviously, we don't want them planted in the city. 
But I think we don't actually want to cull invasive species at this point. I think the tree you talked 
about is an ash tree, which is not an invasive species, but rather one that perhaps may be 
subject to a beetle that has obviously become problematic in terms of our ash tree population in 
the city. But I don't think we want to cull invasive trees at this point in time. But rather, obviously, 
we don't want them planted. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
A couple more, Mr. Chair, please. Others in this room may know this, but for me, just to sort of 
understand sort of where we are in the big picture. You know, we've talked a lot about 20%, 17 
to 20%. And you mentioned, Mr. O'Riordan, that the tree canopy loss is sort of a cyclical thing. 
So is this something that we've been through before in our history? Is what we're seeing now 
worse or on-par with what's happened in the past? And where does this kind of, how have we 
dealt with it in the past? 
 
DPW Commissioner Owen O'Riordan   
Councillor, I think there's evidence to suggest that at the turn of the 20th century, that there was 
a lot of tree planting that occurred in that city. And so we benefited from that for the last hundred 
years. And I think that there is a certain amount of dieout that has occurred. Proportionately, 
again, that was not one of the things that we could divine in terms of the analysis that was 
completed. Certainly, I would say this: that if I look at trees in the public right-of-ways and to 
trees in private property, trees in private property are distinctly more healthy than trees in the 
public right-of-way and that's for good reasons. There's not much permeable surfaces in the 
public right-of-way. They're subject to much more difficult environmental circumstances, be it 
cars, be it salt and what have you. Trees in the private way provide I think it's maybe 60% of the 
canopy overall. And it is critically important to us, if indeed we want to preserve trees, that they 
continue to be protected in some form or fashion. Be that encouraging people to plant, or 
reducing the extent to which trees are taken down. But I can't speak specifically as to how 
different the natural cycle the present circumstance is. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
Mr. Chair, I know we're talking a lot about the tree removal ordinance, but can I ask a general 
question about the forest master plan as well, is that on the table? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
That is in order, yes. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
So just, and maybe it's me, I'm sorry, if I missed in here. But just so what do you think will be the 
most important policy changes we can make that would yield the largest percentage of gain in 
the tree canopy? What are sort of your top three or four things that we need to do? 
 
DPW Commissioner Owen O'Riordan   
We've asked each member of the task force to provide us with their top five. I don't know if 
we've necessarily aggregated all of that as of yet. And so, there may be a different answer that 
might come out of the task force. But I would say this. I forgot my train of thought. Yes, I know 
there's been a lot of talk about the amount of canopy in the city being at 30%, and I know 
people are advocating for 40%. There were three values that were identified as being most 
critical in this exercise: resilience in the face of climate change, shared responsibility be it public 
responsibility and private responsibility. But then I think perhaps the most significant from our 

City of Cambridge 

Page 13 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

perspective, in light of climate change, in light of, you know, healthier neighborhoods, was the 
idea around equity. And, you know, if you look at some of the maps in the Urban Forest Master 
Plan, you know, where you have the least canopy is in those communities that are most under 
stress, in where there's poverty, where English is a second language. And so it's important from 
our perspective moving forward that we concentrate not so much on the 30% canopy, but rather 
providing more canopy in the public right-of-way. Where again, more people can take 
advantage of it. Providing more canopy in those areas of the city where the impact of urban heat 
island is most significant. And so I think that is the area where we think that we should be 
placing more emphasis moving forward. And quite frankly, that's a heavy lift. And certainly in the 
east of the city where just the urban form is one that is more challenging in terms of providing 
more canopy. But I do think that in terms of this master plan, those are the values that present 
themselves I think to us as being the most significant and important. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
That's all for now, Mr. Chair. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thank you, Councillor. Alright, so we'll hear from the public if you haven't already done so 
please sign up. So we can call your name and I do want to note that we did receive numerous 
communications. And we received from, from private residents and then we received one letter 
from Green Cambridge in support of extending the moratorium and a letter from Harvard 
University in opposition. So, if you've signed up to speak, please come forward to the mic and I 
will go retrieve the signup sheet while you do that. Kristine Jelstrop. 
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan   
Here we go. Kristine Jelstrop, 120 pleasant street, member of mothers out front. That was a 
really interesting presentation. I appreciate the DPWputting that together. Esteemed city 
councillors. My comments are pulled from a letter posted to the urban forestry masterplan 
website and the green Cambridge opinion piece which appeared in Cambridge day and which I 
wholeheartedly support. Our trees are living infrastructures that are essential to Cambridge is 
livability and resilience in the face of accelerating climate change. Trees mitigate flooding, 
reduce energy consumption, cool urban heat islands and improve public mental and physical 
health. The trees clean the air and help to stabilize the climate by sequestering carbon above 
and below the ground. It is in the interests of the entire community to protect our existing trees 
and at the same time expand the canopy by planting more. To make Cambridge more resilient 
to climate change we must act quickly and decisively. Trees are part of the natural system that 
reduces carbon pollution and protects us all. The tree protection ordinance is critical because it 
gives the city space to work and take recommendations laid out in the excellent Task Force 
technical report, jointly written by Reed Hildebrand and the city and find an agreed upon method 
to implement them. The top level strategies in the report were clear; curb the loss of trees and 
grow the canopy. We can't do either if the ordinance is about to expire, especially with so many 
people standing at the ready to take down their trees when the [sic] moratorium expires. I hope 
that the city council will vote unanimously to extend the moratorium through 2020. Thank you. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thank you, Kristine. Byron Cohen. 
 
 
Good afternoon. Thank you for the presentation. My name is Byron Cohen. I'm a lifelong 
resident of Cambridge, a graduate of the amigo school and CRLS and an active voter. Currently 
I reside in Harvard Graduate Student Housing but for most of my life, I lived in our family home 

City of Cambridge 

Page 14 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

on 11 Donald street, and my family actually moved into that home the day I was born 25 years 
ago. During the time that I was growing up, the tree landscape of our property has experienced 
many changes, but it's always been green with the lush tree canopy that many people would 
expect on a large lot. My parents Peter Cohen and Michelle Mentis Cohen have moved very 
slowly in making changes to the tree scape trying to be conservative in the best sense of the 
word, as they share the city's goal of preserving the tree canopy. They've only replaced trees 
that were killed by disease or remove trees that were either causing damage to the two 
buildings on our family property, or which were damaged and at risk of falling representing a 
safety hazard. For example, in 1998, when I was about four years old, my parents planted 
approximately 15 hemlock trees dividing them up into the north, west and south sides of our 
property. Each group of trees had a different fate. As I grew older the group in the north side did 
well initially growing by leaps and bounds as I did as well. The group on the west side did all 
right, growing slowly, and the group on... of trees, about eight of them on the south side all died 
for reasons that were unclear at the time. Being optimistic my parents replaced all of those eight 
dead hemlocks, and most of them died again about 15 dead trees. In total. They had soil tests 
done and consulted with various experts, who eventually reached a consensus that these 
hemlocks were being killed by the neighbors adjacent Norway maples. Then in the early 2000s, 
a new problem arose our surviving had hemlocks were suddenly attacked by an invasive 
species known as the hemlock woolly adle ged, which had moved up from Southern climes as a 
result of climate change. So when I was about nine years old, these trees began to look more 
and more sickly. It became apparent that they were dying and that they weren't going to return 
to good health and so my parents with a heavy heart, and to hit to their pocketbook, removed 
these diseased, dying trees and replace them with arborvids. So today of those original 15 
hemlocks only two still stand. So I know that my parents would like to plant more trees on our 
property. But I also know that living in 125 year old house with a 50 year old roof and a need for 
maintenance, there's competition for limited household dollars in terms of property maintenance 
and improvement. And we feel that anything that unnecessarily increases the cost of tree care 
over the tree life cycle makes it less likely rather than more likely that people like my parents will 
be able to plant more trees, specifically the provision of the ordinance that requires property 
owners to obtain permits to remove dead or dangerous trees. And which effectively requires 
them to spend 250 to 300 dollars per tree in fees to obtain certifications of those trees being 
dead by certified arborists. Its... are both unfair and counterproductive to Cambridge's goal 
which we share of retaining a robust tree canopy.  
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thanks Byron, if you could wrap up 
 
 
Okay, so had they been subject to this ordinance at that time. Wy parents would have been 
subjected about three and a half thousand dollars in mandatory arborist fees simply to certify 
the death of our hemlocks. Clearly that discourages tree planting. We don't want that to happen. 
We want Cambridge to have a vibrant robust tree canopy, but people have to plant trees for that 
to happen in the long run. So thank you. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thank you. Trumbull Barrett. 
 
 
There we go. Good afternoon. My name is Trumbull Barrett. I live at 11 King Street. And I also 
happen to be the president of a Barrett Tree Service East in Medford. And I want to thank the 
folks at the DPW, particularly David and Andrew for all the work they've done in implementing 

City of Cambridge 

Page 15 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

this ordinance. The Councillors and the task force for all the work you've put in. Over the course 
of the last 11 months or so, our company has removed about 50 trees under this ordinance. And 
I think it might be worth pointing out that the cost of complying with this ordinance is, on 
average, less than about 10% of the cost the removal, so that might, you know, help speak to 
the conversation about the cost of meeting the needs of the ordinance. I was just thought it'd be 
worthwhile sharing that. My comments I think we're on the slideshow. The majority of our clients 
recognize that the ordinance is important and recognize the need to comply with it. It's been my 
experience that folks were annoyed by the ordinance. I think it's more about the city enforcing 
the city's will on their personal property. And it's not often as much about the finance. And my 
last piece of... my last thought rather, is that, um, you know, for me on a practicing level, the 
ordinance has been pretty straightforward, I think thanks to the hard work of the DPW. And if the 
council sees it fit to proceed with the ordinance, I would, I would very much support an 
allowance for replacement. And I think that that would really help folks understand and be able 
to comply with the ordinance moving forward. So thank you for your time. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thank you. Former Vice Mayor Jen Devereaux. 
 
 
Hi, everyone. Nice to be back to my former committee and to be talking about a subject that's 
near and dear to my heart. If you need my address. It's 255 Lakeview Avenue. And I am now a 
board member of Green Cambridge. So I think Kristine has already paraphrased some of the 
comments that you received by email and that were in Cambridge Day, and a longer set of 
comments that were sent to the urban forest master plan task force, which like all of the public 
comment are posted on that project webpage, which I encourage anyone who hasn't seen the 
range of comments to take a look at those. So I'm here to amplify what Green Cambridge has 
already said. And also speaking for myself, just to remind us that, that list of the pros was... the 
pros and cons, on the pro side was perhaps a little scant on the actual pros of why this is such 
an important thing. I mean, yes, it is a pro that Cambridge residents are by and large now sort of 
on board with this, but I think it's really important for us to bear in mind that it is one of the city... 
you know, it complements all of the city's larger priorities. So we're not really just talking about 
trees, we're talking about our urban environment and other priorities, like increasing safety and 
walkability on our streets. It helps promote street level retail, and it has measurable public health 
outcomes. I don't think that gets talked about enough in terms of both air quality and cooling. 
And those are especially important to vulnerable residents, children and seniors. And they make 
all of our housing whether it's low income or market rate housing more attractive, they enhance 
our parks. So there's a huge public benefit to everybody getting behind this. I agree that if we 
can in the eventual amendment of the tree protection ordinance, if we can include a way for 
people to replant as mitigation that seems sensible. I support increasing the or decreasing the 
diameter. And I also would support a different set of mitigation for particularly large or significant 
trees because those are really hard to replace. But for now, I would encourage you to keep it 
simple, to extend the moratorium and not try to figure out how to amend the moratorium while 
extending it. If as Commissioner O'Riordan says he can have a set of recommendations to 
amend the ordinance more fully within four or five, six weeks that will give you time to do this 
and this won't drag on forever and ever. So I hope you'll do that. And I look forward to following 
along. Thanks. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thank you so much, Fritz Donovan. 
 
DPW Commissioner Owen O'Riordan   

City of Cambridge 

Page 16 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

Chairman Zonderva, Councillors. I'm Fritz Donovan, 42 Irving street Cambridge. First I want to 
thank you for being here today on behalf of our dangerously threatened environment. 
Undoubtedly the most important issue that faces us today. It is difficult to save a planet without 
inconveniencing people. One need only observed the aggressive attempts of the current 
Washington administration and their inconvenienced billionaire backers to overturn all the major 
environmental victories achieved by previous administrations. But our planet definitely needs 
saving and everyone in this room knows it. So how do we get that done? The key is balance. 
Every new ordinance imposes restrictions that do not previously exist and the impact of those 
restrictions falls on different people in different ways. So the successful ordinance has to 
balance the impact to achieve the goals our planet desperately needs without unfair burden on 
anyone. Our recently published urban forest master plan points out that the vast majority of 
Cambridge trees are on private property. There's nothing private about the huge benefits those 
trees provide. But restricting private owners rights to benefit the public as a whole is a delicate 
process. The current ordinance has been criticized for imposing major expense on some private 
tree owners without providing any financial offset. The City of Cambridge can easily afford to 
mitigate that expense through subsidized landscape services, tax rebates and other means. 
This committee needs to work out fair and balanced methods to do so. At the same time, the 
ordinance needs to be broadened to include a wide range of trees this current ordinance does 
not protect at all. But those protections must have teeth, sharp teeth. It is hard to imagine a per 
tree dollar penalty for unlawful destruction of a healthy tree. That is high enough to prevent the 
developer of a multi million dollar project from simply destroying all the trees in their way. And 
just adding the fine to the cost of the project. Preventing this abuse may be the highest 
challenge of all, but it has to be done. Cambridge has the intellectual and financial resources to 
protect our health and environment in this vital area. We are all rooting for this committee to do 
it, no pun intended. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thanks Fritz. Peter Cohen. 
 
 
Good afternoon, members of the council. Nice to see many of you again and see for the first 
time some of you I haven't met before. I'm Peter Cohen. My wife Michelle and I live at 11 
Donnell Street in Cambridge, where we've lived since July 14, 1994. Prior to that I lived most of 
my life in the Agassi neighborhood. We have a large lot with two buildings on it. And they're 40, 
count them of 40 trees on our property. So we like trees. I grew up with a lot of trees, I love 
trees. But the current ordinance is really giving me daily heartache and likelihood of more 
heartache. During the time we've been there, we've had different species and sizes and there's 
been constant change. People get this picture that trees are just some kind of static thing. But if 
you look at over time, it's actually much more dynamic system. We have three problems that are 
caused by this ordinance. Problem number one is unreasonable burden caused... relating to the 
removal of dead trees. Four of our 40 trees are now dead. Three are currently subject to the 
current ordinance and require individual removal permits. And the quotes I have gotten out, 
making some inquiries are $250 to $300 per thing. So to give you the numbers, I have a quote 
to remove just two of the tree is $1900 to take down the trees by relatively reasonably priced 
person, and then $500 on top of that for the certification. That increases the cost of the removal 
by 26%. Now, at that point, we just have a tree that's cut to the ground. We don't we haven't 
even gotten into stump grinding, preparing soil for a possible replacement. I can tell you that 
one of the reasons we move slowly, is we like to protect existing trees and another is cost. 
We're not made of money any more than anyone else is. And so this notion that really the 
marginal costs, whether it's 10% or, or, or 25% more isn't important is just wrong. So I have 
here in this forum of November and in public meetings and in private meetings, again and again 

City of Cambridge 

Page 17 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

invited the city arborist come look at my dead trees. And dare him to say that they're not 
anything but dead. This notion that the city can't come on my properties is just nonsense. City 
asserts authority to regulate. It can issue stop work citations, it can issue huge penalties. But 
when I invite them to come, they can come apparently. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thanks, Peter. 
 
 
I have more to say, a lot more to say. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
We need to move on. Thank you. Florrie Wescout. Thank you. Florrie Wescout. 
 
 
Just for the record, I'm going to be submitting the rest of my stuff then in writing since I've now 
been cut off.  I haven't  gotten past point 1. I hope you read it because I want to keep showing 
up at city council member meetings. 
 
 
Florrie Wescout, I live at 33 Market Street. And I'm a member of the Committee on Public 
Planting and also served on the task force and also a member of mothers up front. And I'm here 
just to urge you to extend the moratorium for the trees and just to point out that the technical 
report, which is a really long read, really well written, but on page 247, it's strongly recommends 
that we don't let that protection ordinance lapse. In general, it was good to see on the 
presentation that most residents understand the importance of maintaining and protecting the 
trees. They are a community asset, and it's our responsibility as citizens to protect them. I did 
want to just briefly comment on a couple of comments that councillors made. I do agree that it 
would be good to streamline the process somehow, when trees are just dead and make that a 
little bit easier for residents. And I think ultimately, to take into account species might be a good 
idea also, especially trees that emit toxic chemicals from their roots like Norway maples, the 
young man spoke about them, because that's a particularly pesky problem. But I think 
ultimately, the reworking and the refining of the tree protection ordinance will be better for 
residents. I think the consultant is very capable and anyway thank you very much. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thank you Florrie. Chantal Eide. 
 
 
Hello, I'm Chantal Eide, I'm 20 Ellsworth Avenue. I'm also on the committee for public planting. 
I'd like to request an extension for the tree protection ordinance. The urban forestry master plan 
recommendations have not yet emerged but there's overwhelming data that Cambridge is losing 
tree canopy at an accelerated rate. The volume of canopy of a mature tree is so significant 
compared to a new tree which may not thrive. So I would like to request extending the tree 
cutting moratorium until a considered response can be made to the urban forestry master plan. 
Thank you. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Okay, thanks so much. Steven Bolotin. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   

City of Cambridge 

Page 18 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

Good afternoon Mr. Chairman, members of the committee. My name is Steve Bolotin. I live at 
7C Donnell Street since July 4 of 1996. I'm going to start by saying I don't have a personal issue 
with any trees on my property. I'm also going to start by saying I don't think anybody here is 
against trees. So I think we can take off the issue of the rape of the land. What we have here is 
an issue of an ordinance. An ordinance which obviously shows some measure of unpopularity 
as I keep hearing from the committee, that many people are waiting for it to expire to go and 
start cutting down trees. So obviously we have an issue in terms of the ordinance, it would be 
obviously far better to have an ordinance that people are more interested in complying with than 
waiting to try and avoid. Some very good suggestions have been made by the, by the 
commission members regarding options. Offsets for new planting, streamlining of the 
application process, reducing cost. These are critical if you're going to get community 
participation. And that's what we're really looking at. If the goal is to increase the canopy, it 
needs to be done in a manner that encourages planting, rather than just discourages the cutting 
down of a tree. We can all sit there and wait for a tree to die, take it down and then do nothing. 
Or alternatively we can encourage somebody to take a sick tree or a tree that's not working in 
the community and encourage its removal and replacement. I urge the committee to work 
towards that directive. Thank you very much.  
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thank you. Lee Farris. 
 
 
Good afternoon, Lee Farris 269 Norfolk Street. Responding to the testimony that I heard today I 
had a few questions as well as a few thoughts. I'm wondering if the city could ask the tree 
maintenance companies and the arborist how many trees they were called out to look at or 
inspect, but they did not apply for a removal permit? Because I suspect that is perhaps the 
reason why we only have 5% disapproval. Then I would also like to gather more data. I would 
add like the city to ask the arborist and the tree maintenance company to say why in their 
opinion, a tree died, not with any liability on the tree maintenance company or the arborist but 
again, just so we can try to gather data. I think there was some discussion about did it happen 
because driveways paved over the trees, watershed or the trees roots got damaged. But if we 
could be more systematic trying to collect that data, that would be helpful. And I asked Mr. 
Barrett, if that was asked for now, and he said no. I'd like to also to know what was the number 
of reports by neighbors of illegal cutting. So for example, I saw a tree that looked healthy to me 
on my street, very large cut down, and I was pretty upset about it, but I went and talked to the 
homeowner instead of calling up the city and asking if they had a permit? And she said, yes, 
they did indeed have a permit because the tree was much sicker than it looked from the street. 
But I don't know if anybody did report illegal cutting. So I, I would like that to happen. And I 
would like us to think how to encourage that. So looking at the new ordinance going forward, 
once we get to the master plan recommendations, I'd like there to be a component of notifying 
neighbors of applications to remove trees. So that neighbors can be involved in the process 
because it does impact you. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thanks Lee if you could wrap up. 
 
 
Okay, thanks. The last one is, can... this is a question, can CHA and other nonprofits get back of 
the sidewalk trees now? Thank you. 
 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 19 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thank you. That concludes the list. I erecognize Tom Lucey and Maggie Booz. 
 
 
Good afternoon, Tom Lucey with Harvard University. We submitted a letter and I encourage you 
to read it. And... but I did want to add, Councillor McGovern asked about the policy, potential 
policy thing that could help here. And one of the things that I think you could look at as a council 
probably not the urban tree Task Force is your parking ratios. Your parking ratios in your zoning 
haven't been updated in decades. They drive and force you to put impervious surfaces in many 
cases to provide the parking for this. They also discourage people from greening over because 
then you'd have to create structured parking. I know at the Divinity School we paved... we did a 
parking over we had some capacity, we could do it. But in other areas where we could green 
over surface parking, the creation of structured parking is so expensive that it's a 
discouragement to do that. So I think that's one area you could look at.  I think you could create 
further green space and further areas the plant in your city. And again, please read my letter. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thanks, and I did. Maggie. 
 
 
Hi, I'm Maggie Booz. I live at 27 Lawn Street in Cambridge. I'm a... I'm the co chair of the 
committee on public planting, and I'm also a member of the tree task force for the urban forest 
master plan. I'm also an architect. I have an architecture... a small architecture firm in 
Cambridge for 25 years now. And I wanted to just speak anecdotally about how the moratorium 
has helped me as an architect encourage people to keep trees. Actually just have an excuse to, 
to convince people to keep trees because I've had a couple of projects in the last year in which 
my clients really wanted to cut down trees, whether for the, for the purpose of the projects that 
we were doing residential additions, or whether they just in the other case, just didn't like trees 
at all, one of which is right next to Peter Cohen's property. In fact, he'll be happy to know that all 
the trees are saved in the, in the project as a result of this moratorium. And it's, it's because I 
can point to this moratorium and, and and just remind people that it exists, and we've done 
pretty significant workarounds on small residential projects. And it's, it's save trees. So there, 
there's the tree moratorium in which, you know, permits have been applied for whatever it is 350 
and, you know, 80 to 100 trees have been saved through that permitting process. And then 
there are the residual results of the moratorium that in which no one applied for a permit. The 
trees were saved nonetheless. So I'd encourage you to extend the moratorium until which time 
you can come up with a great ordinance that addresses the concerns of citizens like Peters. 
Where, where you know, the hiring of the arborist is expensive, etc. Perhaps consider what the 
building department does, which is that a homeowner can apply for his own building permit even 
though does he doesn't have a contractor's license. You know, maybe there's a way of of 
working that as, as, you know, evaluation of the trees. And I'd also like to lend great support to 
the Department of Public Works, which is committed to an engagement with the public that will 
make the, make the make the citizenry cognizant of how important these trees are, how 
essential they are to our, to our good health and the beauty of our city. Thank you so much. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thank you. Yes, please come forward and speak and then we will have to close public 
comment. So we run out of time. Please give us your name. 
 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 20 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

Yes. My name's Pamela heart. Pamela heart. I live also on Donnell street number 18. So I just 
was hoping that there could be some consideration given to people who have planted or plan to 
plant additional trees. And I'm wondering if it might be possible for people who want to get 
permission to remove an undesirable tree, whether it's in poor condition, or its invasive or 
whatever reason, that if they agreed plant a tree that would become a comparable size that this 
could be taken into consideration. I also think we need to consider other kinds of plants as well. 
There are instances where people would really like to have a vegetable garden or they want to 
have small lawn for their children to do somersaults or for whatever reasons, I would like there 
to be some consideration of individual circumstances. Thank you. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thank you so much. I'll entertain a motion to close public comment. So on closing public 
comment, all in favor please say aye. Any against. Alright, so public comment is closed. So we'll 
return to discussion of both the moratorium as well as the urban forest master plan task force 
report. And we have about 20 minutes. So if we could keep that in mind. So any questions or 
comments? Councillor Nolan. 
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan   
Thanks. I really appreciate our colleagues started the conversation before. And I m really 
impressed with the with the whole report. I didn't read every single page, but I did look through 
it. And it is really comprehensive, scientifically based and extensive. I understand it did take 
longer than expected, which is why we're here discussing the possible moratorium for that huge 
report to come out in November. It would be unreasonable to think in a month or two that a new 
ordinance could be drafted. I do think a few of the things that, that struck me in reading the 
report was that the draft goals which I believe the commissioner talked about are equity, shared 
responsibility and resilience as all things and then under each of those, there's a number of 
areas that are very specific recommendations that would come forward in a new report. I think. 
What I don't know is when I hear the commissioner say he's committed to coming forward in 
four to six weeks with, in essence a draft new ordinances that... and then my understanding is 
that would come forward, and then it would be up to the council to then take that in, would it 
take then a couple months maybe to, to pass it? And if so, we are talking about it's now January 
by end of February there's the draft ordinance from public works. And then another couple 
months for us. So we should be able to wrap this up by spring, but let's say it doesn't maybe 
they've been in the summer. That seems like a reasonable timeframe. Within that to just keep it 
simple. Keep the existing moratorium in place. Understanding that yes, it will be challenging for 
some folks who feel like they... look, I think we all agree some of the cons are not so great about 
not being able to trade off a replacement tree. But every single one of those cons, my 
understanding and looking at them, every single one can be addressed and part of the new 
ordinance. In fact, it's in the master plan and some of the recommendations that all of those 
cons about not allowing replanting, no protection for tree roots. The question of invasive species 
I think has been answered and the cost can all be incorporated in any kind of new ordinance. 
And... which i'm in favor of doing I really want us to get to a much more robust ordinance, build 
on this incredibly important report. And the other another striking thing that is informing my 
thinking on this from the report is that many other cities also have a goal. So we have a goal of 
30% regarding back up to 30%. There's a striking chart in the report that shows that even with 
really aggressive planting of hundreds and hundreds of trees that we will not get there unless 
we combine, in essence, a moratorium and a very strict incentive program combined with 
aggressive planting to even reach that goal. And I will say that is lower than Boston's goal of 
35%, New York City's goal of 36%. And so I want us to do everything we can and to listen to 
and adhere to what we've also heard, which is, I think we're all united in... while this seems 
somewhat punitive, we want to do everything we can to incentivize people to plant to have not 

City of Cambridge 

Page 21 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

just a stick but a carrot. And in the... one of the things I really enjoyed about in the urban forestry 
mastery plan is there's a lot of incentives in there in ways that through education, others that we 
would address, one, the equity, the geographic equity issue across the city, which is going to be 
the biggest challenge for that part of the city that has less tree. This is not a super onerous thing 
if I'm correct. If we're all committed and tell me if I'm wrong, that we actually can get this done 
within... While it may not be this spring as we would like by March or April, but that we could 
definitely by May or June, which seems to be a reasonable period of time. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thank you. Anyone else?  Councillor McGovern. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
Thank you, Mr. Chair. So, my guess is that we are... we will extend this for a period of time. I do 
think, you know, the folks who I... who I've talked to who have had concerns, I think that when 
we talk about people are waiting for this to expire. I sort of envisioned someone sitting there, 
you know, twiddling their hands. I can't wait to... you know, most of the people that I've talked to 
that have that issue with this are reasonable people who are having an issue with trees on their 
property and, you know, maybe... and you know, people have different priorities. It is as Mr. 
Donovan said, it is a difficult, challenging balance to... you know, I bought a house I want to put 
a deck on because I want to have barbecues with my grandkids. And the city comes in and says 
you can't do that because we want to save the tree. I mean, we are infringing on someone's 
personal rights on their property. That's not something we should just kind of take, take lightly. 
And so you know, I do, you know, either this is going to become permanent, or it's going to 
expire at some point, in which case, people may be waiting. Maybe they thought they were 
waiting until did we decide, was it February 11? Is that when? March? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
February 25. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
We get we got an answer to that? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
But just to clarify, there's no interest in making this permanent. What we're doing... what we're 
talking about is reworking the ordinance. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
I'm just I'm just I'm just saying that at some point, if it's going to expire, then that date will come 
where people will wait, whether it be in March or December. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
That's not correct because the assumption is that we will amend it. And so there will still be 
protections after the moratorium.  
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
We will see when we get there. But so I do think that there's, you know, and in the ordinance 
and I and Councillor Mallon, you know, asked for this in the original ordinance to be mindful of 
folks that, you know, were lower income who, you know, a 5, 6, 7, $10,000 fine, you know, 
significant. But there's a lot of people who don't qualify for a... What are we saying? What's the 
word we use to achieve established forms of financial assistance? Were a couple thousand 
dollars is significant to them. And so if we're going to extend this, which I think we will, are we 

City of Cambridge 

Page 22 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

planning on doing another mailing to people how are we planning on letting people know 
because if you are someone who is, who thinks this is going to expire in March and you're 
waiting for a good reason, not passing judgment, to remove a tree. And now we extend it and 
you don't know it's extended and you cut down the tree and you get a fine for $6,000. I'm not 
sure that's really fair either. So are we planning to do another outreach to people once we 
extend this. 
 
DPW Commissioner Owen O'Riordan   
Through you Mr. Chair. Councillor not wanting necessarily to predict that you will extend or 
change. But we certainly would commit to doing another mailing and more outreach to the 
community. If indeed either a new ordinance or this amendment was to be extended, so we'd be 
happy to take that on. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Yes. 
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan   
This would be really quick because the postcard that I also got. I'm a property owner, I one tree 
on my property. Didn't have an end date. It just said effective March 11. There was a tree 
ordinance it didn't say this will only be in place for a year. So I don't know what  
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
But, I would say in conversations and in papers that people know.... I mean, we can on one 
hand, say people waiting for this to expire in March and then say people don't know what's 
expiring in March. Right? So obviously people know. So if we're going to extend that, let's inform 
them, so we don't have any unintended consequences. 
 
Councillor Patty Nolan   
Thank you. Yeah, I think, just to reiterate, my colleagues points, I think we need to extend the 
tree protection ordinance, because if there's a gap, it sort of defeats the purpose in some ways. 
And that's I am... I'm sympathetic to the idea of having a dead tree on your property having to 
call an arborist to come and that "yup, dead tree", and that there might be some way to work 
with that. Whether it's city sort of refunding the fee if it is dead, and you can certify that and sort 
of looking at what the costs would be, if that's possible. Not wanting to extend the burden on the 
DPW and the arborist but if they're, you know, are if we just put in the budget the fee for another 
city staff arborist specifically look at dead trees that would then be able to take off the cost. 
Maybe that's a possibility. And then just sort of, sort of reiterate the point before around 
enforcement. I think it's just something we need to think about. Maybe have a list on the website 
of trees that have gotten permitted, for cutting down. I think, we, I've been at city council 
meetings where folks have said, You know, I just saw these trees coming down the other day, 
and I thought we had a tree protection ordinance now and wanting sort of have an answer for 
them. And to just avoid sort of reporting of having to folks telling their neighbors in order for it to 
really be enforced, and that there are parts of the neighbor, parts of the city where, you know, 
they're more folks who are working class, have less income at this time who are less likely to 
report, you know, whether that's their neighbor, who's a homeowner owner, whether that's a big 
developer or someone who's violating the ordinance that there might be times where folks aren't 
reporting and so just trying to figure out whether that's, you know, ISD doing an inventory when 
they look at properties or some other way to sort of keep track that way. I would be interested in 
sort of figuring that out on the enforcement side. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   

City of Cambridge 

Page 23 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

Thanks. Vice Mayor Mallon. 
 
Vice Mayor Alanna Mallon   
Thank you. I think we heard a couple of really great comments today around. We really do need 
to be thinking about this as encouraging tree planting, not just encourage... discouraging 
removals. I think one of the earlier public speakers was talking about... I know Miss Nolan just 
mentioned it. So I would really challenge the DPW in, through this process to think about how 
we can be creative about using funds and staffing to encourage tree planting. Including what Mr. 
Lucey brought up from Harvard around what are the other city barriers for us to be encouraging 
tree planting on places where, you know what, what are the places where we can as a city as a 
government be looking at to decrease... parking ratios is an excellent example. I'm sure that 
there are others. So I would challenge us all to be thinking about what those other things are. I 
do think, I was appreciative of the data that was afforded to us here. But I do, I wonder about 
how many trees were called for that didn't meet the requirement. And so we never saw that 
data. And I'm wonder if there is a way to collect that for the next meeting, whether that's working 
through the arborist to find out were there, were 500 calls that went out that the arborist went 
out to calls to say, you know, what this actually does... We have a tree protection ordinance and 
a moratorium and so you can't apply. So, you know, there are... I think the data is a little bit 
incomplete. I do wonder if there is a way... I was just thinking about it when people were talking 
about, you know, you see a tree coming down and you think I thought we had a tree protection 
ordinance. Is there a way that the DPW could put up a sign? Like you know what, when you're a 
team, when the DPW is doing tree work, right? There's a there's a sign so that I don't ever show 
up to my house where I'm surprised the DPW is there because there's been a sign up for a 
week that says that the tree is coming down. Is there a way to design a sign so that 
homeowners who have received a permit to remove a tree can put it up in front of their house? 
So neighbors aren't wondering, did they get a permit? Did they go through the process? I do 
think that that's just an easy quick way for us to communicate to abutters and to neighbors that 
the neighbors have followed a process much like the we do the tree work signs. So I am looking 
forward to continuing this conversation because I do think that there are some really good 
strategies for consideration in the next ordinance. I do want to call attention to the fact, when we 
were having this conversation at the City Council level that there was a I don't want to put words 
in your mouth, Councillor McGovern, but there was an amendment on the floor around changing 
the no such permits will be issued until December 31 2020 or until a new ordinance has been 
put forth based on the recommendations of the urban tree task force. Again, I don't want to put 
words in your mouth. But I do think that that might put some minds to rest and give a little more 
clarity around what we're talking about. That this isn't just going to be an indefinite moratorium 
and moratorium forever but that there is a clear thing that we are looking at, to put a stop to this. 
But thank you very much again, for all of your work. I know. This was a tremendous effort. And I 
commend you all for for putting in that effort and making it easy for our residents. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thanks, Vice Mayor. So just respond to that suggestion, and I certainly considered it myself 
even when first putting in place this moratorium, but we decided at that time that it's it's not 
necessary to put that in. It's also a little bit confusing, because how do we decide what we 
consider substantial amendments, but at the end of the day as Councillor Nolan outlined, it's 
quite likely that we could get through a process of amending the ordinance by this summer, 
maybe it spills into the fall. But certainly we would hope that we could get this done before the 
end of the year. And as part of that amendment process itself, we would simply remove the 
moratorium. So even though we are amending it, proposing to amend it now, this say expires 
December 31. At any point that we are ready to amend the overall tree protection ordinance, we 
can simply remove that phrase and the moratorium. So I don't think it's necessary to put it in 

City of Cambridge 

Page 24 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

there to say, you know, December 31, unless we amended first because that's essentially what 
we're going to do so we can explain that to people but we don't necessarily have to put that in 
the actual text. So that's just my opinion. I did want to briefly ask a few questions, and then I will 
entertain a motion to forward the proposed amendment to the, to the full Council. So at the 
November 12, 2019 meeting of this committee, we also got an update on the permit applications 
at that time. And the data we received, according to my notes was 349 permits applied for and 
298 issued that was about 51 not issued at that time. But today we're hearing 347 issued out of 
366 so 19 not issued so is that because many are most of those 51 ultimately were issued 
between then and now. 
 
Andrew Putnam, Superintendent of Urban Forestry and Landscape   
Correct. They were either filed submitted under the wrong category or with insane with 
insufficient amount of data and then they were resubmitted. So this is actually kind of, more of a 
tree basis. If you think about it that way that 347 trees to be removed, and then a total of 19 
were denied. Got it. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thank you. I wanted to quickly speak to the back of the sidewalk program, which I've been able 
to participate in quite happily. The trees doing well. And I was really glad to receive that tree. It 
was a substantial tree, it wasn't a stick you know. It was a significant tree when it was planted, 
which is the advantage of this kind of a program because that would be a significant cost to 
homeowner to purchase such a tree. And it is correct that as part, as a participant, I'm agreeing 
to take care of the tree and so if at some point I need to remove it, I would have to bear that that 
cost. Of course, that's also true if I plant the tree myself. And I think because, more because of 
the 20 feet limit than other, than any other reason, I think it's really limited program. We just so 
happened in my case that there was one spot where we could squeeze it in. And so I think, as 
we consider different options, I would be in favor of a program that is more free ranging right 
that, that allows us to fund planting a tree on private property. And, and also that we consider a 
kind of insurance program where we would also fund in the future removal of such a tree and 
replacing it if it was sick or dying, or otherwise needed to be removed. So that the participating 
property owners would know that they would really not bear significant cost down the road? If, if 
the tree needs to be removed or replaced. And, you know, obviously we have to get around the 
anti-aid amendment. But that's a general issue. And we have ways to do that. So I'm not terribly 
concerned about that. And then I want to highlight what Councillor Nolan brought up and others 
as well that what we don't know is how many trees will not cut down, because we have this 
moratorium in place and Maggie Booz spoke to that as well. So I think it is really important that 
we extend that protection. Give ourselves the time that we need to fully amend the ordinance 
and that we do commit to our, to our residents that we are going to do that as speedily as we 
can so that we're not intending to continue this extension process. This is a one time extension 
because of the delay which is quite understandable and has ultimately delivered a much deeper 
and more thorough report. So with that I would entertain a motion to refer the amendment to the 
full council with a favorable recommendation. Councillor Nolan. 
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan   
I'm just interested. I understand, Mr. Chair, you're concern. But would we rather put in the 
phrase that Councillor McGovern had suggested, which is prior to December 31 2020, or such 
time as a new tree ordinance is approved? I think we should do that. So I don't know how the 
process is? Do I move an amendment? Is it a friendly amendment? Or do you? You should 
move it. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   

City of Cambridge 

Page 25 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

I was.. You beat me to the punch. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Yes. So that that would be an amendment, which is in order. I will say that, again, it's... I 
understand and, and support the intention, but it is also confusing in, in that wording, because 
what do we mean by a new tree protection ordinance. So I, you know, I think Think it's 
unnecessary, and it complicates the process and I would not be voting for it. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
So if I may, Mr. Chair, so I would say, I don't think it's confusing because we're talking about 
passing the tree protection ordinance in the springs. That's what we're talking about. Right. So 
when that ordinance... 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Point of information, we have a tree protection ordinance. So what we're talking about is 
amending it further. So what, what we would have to specify is what constitutes a sufficiently 
comprehensive amended to. 
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan   
Do we have a hard stop at 4:30? Because we have to do this in a minute if we do. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
There's another committee meeting... or until a... So I would move that after December 31, 
2020. That we add or until a new city wide tree protection ordinance is  passed.  You 
don't second. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
We do not second so the amendment is on today. So we will have discussion, any comments? 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Just to say I'm fine with it either way. I think sort of, in fact, if we have an ordinance [sic] sort of 
replaced what we have with the moratorium now, I don't think we need it. I don't think it changes 
that it if we do have it. No super strong feelings. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
So what I will say again, I don't think that is clear language. What do we mean by a new tree 
protection ordinance? I don't know what that means, if we could amend it to change one word, 
and then is the moratorium now no longer the fact.  I just don't think this is useful, but that's my 
opinion. On the amendment, all in favor? Opposed? I'm opposed. So the amendment 
carries with two in favor and one opposed and one present. On the motion. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
Motion as amended move to send to the council with a favorable recommendation. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
On the motion. All in favor? Any opposed? Okay, the motion carries. I will entertain a 
motion to adjourn. So moved. All in favor. Thank you. 

 

 

City of Cambridge 

Page 26 

  

Minutes 

Health & Environment Committee 

January 22, 2020 

1.  TPO Extension PO 

RESULT: 

REFERRED TO THE CITY COUNCIL WITH A FAVORABLE 
RECOMMENDATION. 

 

2.  A  Report  was  received  from  the  Department  of  Public  Works  entitled  Cambridge  Urban  Forest 

Master Plan, Nov 12, 2019. 

3.  A  communication  was  received  from  Florrie  Wescoat  on  behalf  of  the  Cambridge  Committee  on 

Public Planting, regarding comments on UFMP Technical Report. 

4.  A communication was received from Steven Nutter on behalf of Green Cambridge regarding support 

5.  A  communication  was  received  from  Helen  Snively,  1  Fayette  Park,  regarding  Tree  canopy 

6.  A communication was received from Elisabeth Werby, 7 Wright Street, regarding trees matter and 

7.  A  communication  was  received  from  Carol  O'Hare,  172  Magazine  Street,  regarding  extend  tree 

8.  A  communication  was  received  from  Abra  Berkowitz,  16  Walden  Street,  regarding  support  for 

RESULT: 

PLACED ON FILE 

for tree protection extension. 

RESULT: 

PLACED ON FILE 

protection...please extend it. 

RESULT: 

PLACED ON FILE 

support for extending the moratorium. 

RESULT: 

PLACED ON FILE 

protection moratorium. 

RESULT: 

PLACED ON FILE 

extension of the tree moratorium. 

RESULT: 

PLACED ON FILE 

cutting moratorium. 

RESULT: 

PLACED ON FILE 

9.  A  communication  was  received  from  Florrie  Wescoat  regarding  support  for  extending  the  tree 

10.  A communication was received from Thomas J. Lucey, Harvard Public Affairs & Communications, 

regarding 1-22-20 Health & Environment Committee - Harvard Univ. Comments 

RESULT: 

PLACED ON FILE 

City of Cambridge 

Page 27 

  

Cambridge Urban Forest
Master Plan

Technical Report Review

November 12, 2019

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

F2

Packet Pg. 28

URBAN FOREST MASTER PLAN
Process overview

Builds upon findings of the CCVA 

Attempts to deepen the City’s understanding of the anticipated risks to the urban forest

Proposed strategies were conceived to support goals of CCPR:
building infrastructural, economic, and social resilience that integrates the built and 
natural environments. 

Task Force met 11 times during 2018-2019 to review progress, pose questions, 
and provide advice to the consultant team, and the interaction with the Task 
Force has significantly shaped the content of this report, the approach to the 
subject, and the components of the response strategies. 

UFMP is as a unique project, one that other communities are looking to emulate 
in planning for the future

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 29

2

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019TASK FORCE MEMBERS

Ahron Lehrman, Resident

Kathleen Fitzgerald, Resident

Tessa Mae Buono, Resident

Elena Saporta, Resident

Randa Ghattas, Resident

Lena Jean Nahan, Resident

Conrad Crawford, Resident

Barbara Murphy-Warrington, Resident

Denise Jillson, Resident, Exec. Director of Harvard Square Business Assoc. 

Louise Weed, Resident

Caitlin McDonough Mackenzie, Resident

Maggie Booz, Resident, CPP Co-chair

Florrie Wescoat, Resident, CPP Co-chair

Megan Nichols Tomkins, Representative of the Chamber of Commerce

Caitlin Tamposi, Representative of the Chamber of Commerce (former TF member)

Laura Tenny, MIT Representative

Mark Verkennis, Harvard University Representative

Tom Evans, Cambridge Redevelopment Authority Representative

Joe Bendar, Cambridge Housing Authority Representative

Michael Johnston, Cambridge Housing Authority Representative (former TF member)

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 30

3

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019FINDINGS
Average canopy loss has been 16.4 acres per year since 2009

2009  —  30%

2018  —  26%

2030  —  17% to 21%
(PROJECTED)

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 31

4

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019FINDINGS
Canopy cover is not equitably distributed

CAMBRIDGE HIGHLANDS

NORTH CAMBRIDGE

28%

26%

NEIGHBORHOOD NINE

31%

AGASSIZ

30%

MID-CAMBRIDGE

25%

WELLINGTON-HARRINGTON

EAST CAMBRIDGE

17%

13%

37%

WEST CAMBRIDGE

36%

STRAWBERRY HILL

21%

CAMBRIDGEPORT

24%

RIVERSIDE

17%

AREA 2 / MIT

19%

THE PORT

FIGURE 1.4 — CANOPY COVER PERCENTAGES AND 
SOCIAL VULNERABILITY BY NEIGHBORHOOD

16    CAMBRIDGE URBAN FOREST MASTER PLAN  PRELIMINARY REPORT

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 32

5

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019FINDINGS
Private property represents 72% of the total loss since 2009 
and 58% of the total 2018 canopy 

2018 CANOPY

CITY AND STATE OWNED TREES   

PRIVATE TREES

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 33

6

-5.2%

-29.1%

-2.2%

-23.7%

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019FINDINGS
Areas with front yard setbacks have street trees in better condition

R.O.W. CANOPY
Street trees with setbacks are in better condition

R.O.W. CANOPY
Street trees with setbacks are in better condition

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

GOOD CONDITION

GOOD CONDITION

FAIR CONDITION

FAIR CONDITION

POOR CONDITION

POOR CONDITION

Packet Pg. 34

7

West Cambridge
WEST CAMBRIDGE

WEST CAMBRIDGE

EAST CAMBRIDGE
EAST CAMBRIDGE
East Cambridge

TREES IN GOOD CONDITION

TREES IN FAIR CONDITION

TREES IN POOR CONDITION

Source: CUFMP 2018 canopy analysis and City GIS data.

Source: CUFMP 2018 canopy analysis and City GIS data.

GOOD
REED HILDERBRAND
REED HILDERBRAND
FAIR

POOR

CAMBRIDGE URBAN FOREST MASTER PLAN

CAMBRIDGE URBAN FOREST MASTER PLAN

PUBLIC MEETING 2  | MARCH 7, 2019

PUBLIC MEETING 2  | MARCH 7, 2019

38

38

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019FINDINGS
Urban canopy goes through cycles of boom and bust

Generalized 100 yr 
tree lifespan

MA statewide 
forest cover

Properties containing homes built around 1920 have an unusually high percentage of tree canopy

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 35

8

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019FINDINGS
Multiple factors impact the future condition of the forest

2030, 2050 and 2070 Baseline
—  existing and potential pests and diseases
—  temperature change and hardiness zone shift 
—  uses existing replanting and growth rates 

2030 Flooding
—  areas experiencing standing water > 24 hrs in a   
 

simulated 100 yr flood event

2050 Drought
—  a moderate drought event is projected to occur    
 
once every 30 years within the 2035 to 2064    
 
timeframe (Hayhoe et al 2006)
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

Annual net loss rate in canopy models ranges from 1.8% to 3.2%. 

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 36

9

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019FINDINGS
Climate change will alter the character of the forest

The species composition of the future forest 
is influenced by suceptibility of individual species  
to climate risks, particularly pests and diseases.

Flooding was found to have a potentially  
minimal impact on the canopy.

Drought was found to have a potentially  
moderate impact on the existing tree canopy. 

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 37

10

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019Core 
Concepts

To maintain, plan, build, and sustain a 
healthy, connective urban forest 

1 
Understand the forest as 
a living system

2 
Value the forest as a 
public resource

3 
Invest in canopy in 
the public realm

4 
Share responsibility 
for a healthy forest

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 38

11

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019APPROACH
Draft goals and targets

EQUITY

SHARED RESPONSIBILITY 

RESILIENCE

Goal 
Minimum 25% cover per 
neighborhood

Target
Each year, plant X* trees in 
neighborhoods deficient in canopy

Feasibility Analaysis
Six neighborhoods do not currently 
meet the target. Will be difficult to 
achieve in East Cambridge.

Goal
City, residents, universities, 
developers all to increase their 
canopy cover by 10 to 25% by 2050

Target
Each year, each constituent plants X* 
number of trees

Human resilience goal
1. 60% of sidewalks canopy covered. 
2. 50% reduction in the number of 
hotspots (92 degrees when 90 degree 
average) in the R.O.W.

Target 
Each year, plant X* trees in the R.O.W. 

Feasibility Analysis
There is enough plantable area to 
achieve this goal.

Forest Resilience Goal
No more than 10% of a single species, 
20% of a genus and 30% of a family.

 

Target
Each year, plant more of X* species on 
recommended list, fewer of X* species

*Planting target numbers will fluctuate depending on a number of factors such as neighborhood, constituent type, and most recent data on loss rates.

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 39

12

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019EQUITY
Set a minimum canopy cover goal by neighborhood

25% CANOPY COVER

WELLINGTON-HARRINGTON

EAST CAMBRIDGE

AREA 2 / MIT

THE PORT

CAMBRIDGEPORT

RIVERSIDE

MID-CAMBRIDGE

NORTH CAMBRIDGE

CAMBRIDGE HIGHLANDS

AGASSIZ

NEIGHBORHOOD NINE

STRAWBERRY HILL

WEST CAMBRIDGE

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 40

13

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019EQUITY
Define priority planting areas

PRIMARY AND SECONDARY COOL CORRIDORS

HIGH PRIORITY AREAS

PRIORITY AREAS

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 41

14

POPULATIONS AT RISK

Minority population, Low Income population, 

Non-English speaking population

HEAT ISLAND HOT SPOTS

Greater than 92 degrees on a 90º day

COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE

Public Schools and Hospitals

CANOPY CORRIDOR

Primary and secondary traffic routes

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019SHARED RESPONSIBILITY
Understand the importance of curbing loss to reaching 30% canopy cover

CURB LOSS BY 0%
PLANT 4000 TREES PER YEAR

CURB LOSS BY 25%
PLANT 3250 TREES PER YEAR

CURB LOSS BY 50%
PLANT 2750 TREES PER YEAR

30% 

30% 

30% 

 

 

R
E
V
O
C
Y
P
O
N
A
C
%

 

0%

0
2
0
2

0
7
0
2

0%

0
2
0
2

0
7
0
2

0%

0
2
0
2

2.a

0
7
0
2

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 42

15

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019SHARED RESPONSIBILITY
Set targets for curbing loss and planting more trees

Plant ___  Additional 
New Trees Per Year   

Reduce Net Loss    
by ___%

Canopy Cover In 
2030 

 Canopy Cover In 
2050 

 Canopy Cover In 
2070

0  
(do nothing scenario)

0

0

2,000

2,000

2,000

4,000

4,000

4,000

 0%        

25% 

50% 

0% 

25% 

 50% 

0% 

25% 

 50% 

22.8%

23.5%

24.3%

23.4%

24.2%

24.9%

24.0%

24.8%

25.5%

17.5%

19.4%

21.4%

22.4%

24.2%

26.2%

27.2%

29.0%

31.0%

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 43

16

13.5%

15.9%

18.7%

24.0%

26.4% 

29.2%

34.5%

36.9%

39.7%

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019SHARED RESPONSIBILITY
Assess impacts to 2070 with a range of changes and impacts

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 44

17

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019High range planting 4000 trees/yrLow range planting 3000 trees/yr50% loss reduction25% loss reductionSHARED RESPONSIBILITY
Ask all parties to contribute to change

161

34

229

19

113

192

111

22

86

126

7

49

6

44

31

440

78

392

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 45

18

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 201910% PUBLIC OPEN SPACE100-250 add’l trees/yrEXISTING CANOPY ACRESPROPOSEDTOTAL PLANTABLE AREARIGHT- OF-WAY650 - 1000 add’l trees/yrINSTITUTIONAL350 - 600 add’l trees/yrLARGE COMMERCIAL/ INDUSTRIAL BLOCKS150 - 250 add’l trees/yrRESIDENTIALNO SETBACK100 - 225 add’l trees/yrRESIDENTIALLIMITED SETBACK1025 - 1800 add’l trees/yr15% 25% 15% 15% 15% RESILIENCE
12,000 new Right of Way trees at maturity increase canopy cover from 26% to 29.4%* citywide

2018 CANOPY

R.O.W. CANOPY AT 25’ DIAMETER, ALIGNS 
WITH 2050-2060 TIMEFRAME

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 46

19

*Idealized scheme of R.O.W. planting, does not consider conflicts with utilites, etc.

Source: and CUFMP 2018 canopy analysis.

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019RESILIENCE
Heat island as felt in 2018 is not evenly distributed

ESTIMATED 
AMBIENT AIR 
TEMPERATURE 
OF A 90°F DAY

80 or Below

80 - 82

82 - 84

84 - 86

86 - 88

88 - 90

90 - 92

92 - 94

94 - 96

96 - 98

98 - 100

Source: CCVA and CUFMP 2018 canopy analysis.

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 47

20

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019RESILIENCE
12,000 new ROW trees at maturity reduce heat island along important corridors

ESTIMATED 
AMBIENT AIR 
TEMPERATURE 
OF A 90°F DAY

80 or Below

80 - 82

82 - 84

84 - 86

86 - 88

88 - 90

90 - 92

92 - 94

94 - 96

96 - 98

98 - 100

Source: CCVA and CUFMP 2018 canopy analysis.

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 48

21

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019RESILIENCE
25% of the city woud experience 0.5 °F or more decrease in temperature 
with 12,000 new trees

Source: CCVA and CUFMP 2018 canopy analysis.

CHANGE IN
AMBIENT AIR 
TEMPERATURE °F

Legend

% OF 
COOLING

Temp_Comp

Decrease < 0.5

Change < 0.5
Decrease 0.5 - 1  41%
Decrease 0.5 - 1
38%
Decrease 1 - 2  
Decrease 1 - 2
Decrease 2 - 3  
11% 
Decrease 2 - 3
4%
Decrease 3 - 4  
Decrease 3 - 4
5% 
Decrease > 4   
Decrease > 4

 

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 49

22

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019RESILIENCE
Diversify the Cambridge forest to better withstand catastrophic events

NORWAY MAPLE, HONEY LOCUST & PIN OAK
33% OF THE TOTAL FOREST

REMAINING TREES FOLLOWING CATASTROPHIC LOSS
17% CANOPY COVER CITY-WIDE

TOTAL FOREST

30 % FAMILY

20% GENUS

10 % SPECIES

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 50

23

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019G

r

o

w

 

c

a

n

o

p

y

E

n

v

i

r

o

n

m

e

n

t

a

l

 

q

u

a

l

i

t

y

 

/

 

w

e

l

l

b

e

i

n

g

 

a
n
d
 

p

u

b

l

i

c

 

h

e

a

l

t

h

E

c

o

l

o

g

i

c

a

l

 

c

o

n

n

e

c

t

i

v

i

t

y

D

i

v

e

r

s

i

t

y

 

o

f

 

f

o

r

e

s

t

 

c

o

m

p

o

s

i

t

i

o

n

P

l

a

n

t

i

n

g

 

c

o

n

d

i

t

i

o

n

s

o

f

 

c

a

n

o

p

y

 

c

o

v

e

r

E

q

u

i

t

y

 

i

n

 

d

i

s

t

r

i

b

u

t

i

o

n

 

t

h

e

r

m

a

l

 

c

o

m

f

o

r

t

S

h

a

d

i

n

g

 

a

n

d

 

c

o

o

l

i

n

g

 

/

 

p

e

d

e

s

t

r

i

a

n

 

U

n

d

e

r

s

t

a

n

d

i

n

g

 

t

h

e

 

v

a

l

u

e

 

o

f

 

t

r

e

e

s

C

u

r

b

 

l

o

s

s

P

o

o

r

 

t

r

e

e

 

c

o

n

d

i

t

i

o

n

T

r

e

e

 

r

e

m

o

v

a

l

s

L

a

n

d

 

c

o

n

v

e

r

s

i

o

n

M

a

t

u

r

e

 

c

a

n

o

p

y

 

d

e

c

l

i

n

e

CURB LOSS + GROW CANOPY
An all-of-the-above approach

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

1

•

•

•

•

Enhance and Expand the 
Tree Protection Ordinance

Formalize Practices for 
Planting and Inspection

A menu of 47 strategies:

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

Leverage Land Use Requirements

   19 Policy
   7 Design 
   9 Practice
   12 Outreach & Education 

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

Leverage Public-Private Partnerships

•

•

•

•

Institutionalize Tree Priorities

•

•

6

Plant Resilient Species

•

•

Street Tree Planting Strategies

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

Site New Parks and Open 
Space Strategically

Improve Monitoring

Expand Maintenance

Expand Planting Practices

•

•

•

•

Invest in Educational Programs

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

Build Community Partnerships

•

•

•

Seek Alternative Green Strategies

•

•

•

•

•

Integrate UFMP into 
Complementary Planning Studies

i

n

 

r

e

s

p

o

n

s

e

 

t

o

 

…

2

3

4

5

7

8

9

1
0

1
1

1
2

1
3

1
4

1
5

a

n

d

 

S

t

r

a

t

e

g

y

 

M

a

t

r

i

x

C

a

m

b

r

i

d

g

e

 

U

r

b

a

n

 

F

o

r

e
s
t
 

P
o
l
i
c
y

S
T
R
A
T
E
G
E
S

I

D
e
s
i
g
n

P
r
a
c
t
i
c
e
s

O
u
t
r
e
a
c
h

O
t
h
e
r

 

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 51

24

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019STRATEGIES
Policy strategy 3B

A
POLICY STRATEGY 3B

Redefine  
Increase front setback 
Significant Trees  
and open space 
to 6” DBH
requirements in 
priority areas through 
Zoning Ordinance

IMPACT AREAS

IMPACT AREAS

STEM LOSS

GROW CANOPY

STEM LOSS

GROW CANOPY

SUMMARY
SUMMARY
Various tree-related requirements and 
For projects requiring a special permit from the 
landscape mandates are currently scattered 
Planning Board or development projects subject 
throughout City zoning. Most of these 
to large project review (25,000 sq. ft. or more), 
requirements are tied to narrowly defined site 
the city’s tree protection ordinance provides 
uses (such as parking facilities or townhouses) 
certain protections. These protections only apply 
and limited districts (such as the Parkway or 
to “Significant Trees,” which are defined as trees 
Prospect Street Overlay Districts). 
greater than 8” DBH.

Other cities and towns locally and across the 

The Zoning Ordinance also includes 
country offer protections for trees with a lower 
requirements for setbacks and open space, 
DBH. In particular, protections for trees with 6” 
which have implications for the amount of 
DBH or greater is common.
area available for planting on sites, but do 
not specifically define the amount of planting 
required.

The concepts behind this strategy  have been 
PROS
taken under consideration by the Resilient 
Increases the number of trees protected by the 
Zoning Task Force.
ordinance  

ANALYSIS
ANALYSIS
The City of Cambridge could increase the 
The statistical sample of Cambridge’s tree 
minimum front setback and open space 
population completed as part of this study 
requirements for all or certain zoning districts 
found that of 4,118 trees inventoried, 41 percent 
to increase the amount of space available 
measured greater than 8 inch DBH versus 60 
for planting on lots. While many of the 
percent which measured 6” DBH or greater. If 
City’s residential districts have substantial 
the city were to redefine Significant Trees as 6” 
requirements, most industrial and business 
DBH or greater, this would increase the number 
districts in the city have little or no front 
of trees captured under the ordinance for the 
setback and open space requirements. 
purposes of new or redevelopment by about 49 
This would not require the implementation 
percent.
of a new concept; rather it would simply 
involve a revision to the existing minimum 
requirements. The city could coordinate 
increased requirements to match the areas 
designated as “high priority” for planting 
and preservation. The City could customize 
CONS
enhanced planting areas based on building 
Applies to more proposed development projects and 
typology, land use, urban form, and other 
thus requires additional city resources to review and 
factors. 
approve plans

Burdens large projects rather than individual residents 

or the City
PROS

Increases plantable area on new  

development sites 

Adds cost to certain projects,  including those which 
CONS
provide housing and other community values
Conflicts with other City goals of density and  

consistency with existing urban form

Targets high priority areas 
PRECEDENTS
National: 
Atlanta, Georgia
PRECEDENTS
Seattle, Washington
National:
Oakland, Florida 
Baltimore, MD* 
Miami, Florida
Austin, TX*
Anna, Texas
*Note that these cities did not increase setbacks and 

Local: 
Concord, Massachusetts
Lexington, Massachusetts 
Brookline, Massachusetts

open space requirements for the sole purpose of 

facilitating planting in high priority areas but did use 

sociodemographic and other factors to determine high 

priority planting areas.

Require amendments to zoning, which is likely to be a 

complex political process

Places burdens on redevelopment projects

Applies only to new development and construction 

projects, having impact only  

over the long term

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

4.  ReSPonSe STRaTegieS 

143

Packet Pg. 52

25

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEW

20

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019STRATEGIES
Policy strategy 3B

POLICY STRATEGY 3B

Increase front setback 
and open space 
requirements in 
priority areas through 
Zoning Ordinance

IMPACT AREAS

STEM LOSS

GROW CANOPY

SUMMARY
Various tree-related requirements and 
landscape mandates are currently scattered 
throughout City zoning. Most of these 
requirements are tied to narrowly defined site 
uses (such as parking facilities or townhouses) 
and limited districts (such as the Parkway or 
Prospect Street Overlay Districts). 

The Zoning Ordinance also includes 
requirements for setbacks and open space, 
which have implications for the amount of 
area available for planting on sites, but do 
not specifically define the amount of planting 
required.

The concepts behind this strategy  have been 
taken under consideration by the Resilient 
Zoning Task Force.

ANALYSIS
The City of Cambridge could increase the 
minimum front setback and open space 
requirements for all or certain zoning districts 
to increase the amount of space available 
for planting on lots. While many of the 
City’s residential districts have substantial 
requirements, most industrial and business 
districts in the city have little or no front 
setback and open space requirements. 
This would not require the implementation 
of a new concept; rather it would simply 
involve a revision to the existing minimum 
requirements. The city could coordinate 
increased requirements to match the areas 
designated as “high priority” for planting 
and preservation. The City could customize 
enhanced planting areas based on building 
typology, land use, urban form, and other 
factors. 

PROS

CONS

Increases plantable area on new  

Conflicts with other City goals of density and  

development sites 

consistency with existing urban form

Targets high priority areas 

Require amendments to zoning, which is likely to be a 

complex political process

Places burdens on redevelopment projects

Applies only to new development and construction 

projects, having impact only  

PRECEDENTS
National:
Baltimore, MD* 
Austin, TX*

*Note that these cities did not increase setbacks and 

over the long term

open space requirements for the sole purpose of 

facilitating planting in high priority areas but did use 

sociodemographic and other factors to determine high 

priority planting areas.

4.  ReSPonSe STRaTegieS 

143

Packet Pg. 53

26

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019STRATEGIES
Policy strategy 3A

POLICY STRATEGY 3A

Establish 
canopy coverage 
requirements by 
parcel through Zoning 
Ordinance

IMPACT AREAS

STEM LOSS

GROW CANOPY

PRECEDENTS
National:
Chapel Hill, NC 
Providence, RI 
Manassass, VA
Augusta, GA

142    CAMBRIDGE URBAN FOREST MASTER PLAN  PRELIMINARY REPORT

SUMMARY
Today, Cambridge has 26 percent of its land 
area covered by canopy. Between 2009 and 
2018, the canopy declined on average by 16.4 
acres every year. At this rate, canopy cover will 
be 21.6 percent in 2030. 

This is also a time period in which significant 
redevelopment has taken place, and long-
term plans such as Envision Cambridge are 
currently setting out a vision for the next areas 
of significant development. Zoning is the most 
effective way to influence development, but 
currently Cambridge zoning has little specific 
direction about trees or canopy cover. 

The concepts behind this strategy  have been 
taken under consideration by the Resilient 
Zoning Task Force.

Land Use Type 

ANALYSIS
If the City amended the Zoning Ordinance to 
require specific canopy coverage percentages 
by land use or district, future development 
would be structured to contribute to 
overall City-wide goals. Emphasis or higher 
percentages could be applied to priority areas 
such as canopy corridors through an overlay 
district. If cover requirements were to apply 
citywide, they could be incorporated into the 
existing requirements/standards for open 
space or established as a separate minimum 
requirement alongside the existing setback 
and open space requirements applied to each 
zoning district and land use type.

2018 Acres 
of Land Use 
Overall 

2018 
canopy 
cover 

Canopy cover 
target 
(DRAFT) 

Plantable area 
(not currently 
canopy covered) 

812 

28% 

35% 

161 

55 

2018 Acres 
of Land Use 
521 
Overall 

2018 
canopy 
44% 
cover 

Canopy cover 
target 
50% 
(DRAFT) 

Plantable area 
(not currently 
133 
canopy covered) 

ROW 
 

Land Use Type 
Open Space 

Residential - no 
ROW 
setbacks 

192 
812 

16% 
28% 

20% 
35% 

Residential - setbacks 
Open Space 

1363 
521 

29% 
44% 

35% 
50% 

Institutional 
Residential - no 
setbacks 

436 
192 

20% 
16% 

30% 
20% 

Commercial/industrial 
Residential - setbacks 

558 
1363 

9% 
29% 

15% 
35% 

New canopy 
acres to meet 
canopy cover 
targets 

New canopy 
acres to meet 
25 
canopy cover 
targets 

17 
55 

86 
25 

44 
17 

34 
86 

44 

44 
161 

440 
133 

111 
44 

126 
440 

111 

PROS

Creates more consistency and predictability  

Institutional 

436 

20% 

30% 

 

	
Commercial/industrial 

CONS

558 

15% 
Conflicts with competing priorities in the zoning/

126 

9% 

34 

for property owners and developers

development processes 

Focuses coverage goals in high priority areas 

Requires amendments to zoning, which is likely to be a 

Targets areas where canopy growth is most 

appropriate

complex process

Applies only to new development and construction 

projects, having impact only over the long term

 

	

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 54

27

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019STRATEGIES
Design strategy 2C

DESIGN STRATEGY 2B

Plant bare root trees 
in expanded and 
enhanced tree ways 
where possible

SUMMARY
Street trees establish more quickly and survive 
longer, especially in the face of drought 
conditions, when they have larger soil volumes. 
In cases where the back of sidewalk condition is 
pervious, it is beneficial for the long term health 
of the tree to connect the tree pit soil to the back 
of the sidewalk, providing a larger continuous 
soil volume for the roots to access.

IMPACT AREAS

PROS
Improves establishment success and life-span

ANALYSIS
Unless infeasible, the City should improve 
planting pits before installing new trees. 
New or amended soils should be placed in 
the open tree pit, with structural soils under 
sidewalks for root growth into adjacent areas. 
Bare root trees are field grown and shippped 
without soil around the roots. Bare root trees 
are recommended over balled and burlapped 
trees due to the ability to plant a larger number 
of bare root trees and bare root trees being 
quicker to establish. 
CONS
Requires additional investment in each replanting

Provides a strategy that is replicable  
across many sites

Requires more protection as bare root trees are 
more susceptible to damage

STEM LOSS

GROW CANOPY

4.  ReSPonSe STRaTegieS 

157

Packet Pg. 55

28

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019STRATEGIES
Design strategy 2C

DESIGN STRATEGY 2C

Narrow sidewalks: 
reduce roadway to 
increase planting

IMPACT AREAS

RESIDENTIAL STREETS
EXISTING: 
Narrow residential streets with no setback

PROPOSED: 
Remove street pavement by shifting two-way 
traffic to one-way; push the curb out to get a 
wider planting zone

PROS
New space and soil volume for tree planting

CONS
Reduced connectivity for vehicle traffic (one way)

More livable street

The cost of redesigning the street

Healthier trees due to greater soil volume

Utility conflicts

STEM LOSS

GROW CANOPY

EXISTING

4.  ReSPonSe STRaTegieS 

PROPOSED

161

Packet Pg. 56

29

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019STRATEGIES
Design strategy 2C

DESIGN STRATEGY 2C

Average sidewalks: 
create planting area in 
parking spots

IMPACT AREAS

RESIDENTIAL STREETS
EXISTING: 
Narrow residential streets with front yards

PRECEDENTS
Western Avenue, Cambridge
San Francisco

PROPOSED: 
Turn some parking spaces into green spaces to 
plant trees 

PROS
Creates more space for trees

Reduces impervious area

CONS
Reduces parking space

The cost of redesigning the street

Utility conflicts

STEM LOSS

GROW CANOPY

EXISTING

4.  ReSPonSe STRaTegieS 

PROPOSED

167

Packet Pg. 57

30

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019STRATEGIES
Design strategy 2C

DESIGN STRATEGY 2C

Wide sidewalks: 
integrate bike lanes 
and tree plantings

IMPACT AREAS

COMMERCIAL STREETS
EXISTING: Major commercial streets with a 
wide sidewalk, parking and bike lane

PROPOSED: Relocate the curb, move the bike 
lane off the street and increase the soil volume

PROS
Incentivizes biking by providing a safer bike lane

CONS
Requires complex utility coordination 

Expands continuous soil volume

The cost of redesigning the street

STEM LOSS

GROW CANOPY

EXISTING

4.  ReSPonSe STRaTegieS 

PROPOSED

171

Packet Pg. 58

31

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019STRATEGIES
Practice strategy 2B

PRACTICE STRATEGY 2B

Implement structural 
pruning for young 
trees

SUMMARY
The City does not currently conduct structural 
pruning for young trees and this represents 
a significant opportunity to improve the long 
term health of street and park trees.

ANALYSIS
Structural pruning is a type of pruning typically 
performed on young to middle-aged shade and 
ornamental trees. The objective is to create a 
strong and healthy structure so that trees are 
sturdier under wind, snow and ice loads, and 
less prone to failures, and so they can live full 
and useful lives in the landscape. The sooner 
in the life of the tree that structural pruning 
is started, the easier and less expensive it is. 
Waiting until the tree is mature often means 
larger more disfiguring pruning cuts, cabling 
and much greater expense.

PROS
Avoided long term costs

CONS
New operational costs

IMPACT AREAS

STEM LOSS

GROW CANOPY

178    CAMBRIDGE URBAN FOREST MASTER PLAN  PRELIMINARY REPORT

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 59

32

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019STRATEGIES
Practice strategy 2A

PRACTICE STRATEGY 2A

Establish a soils 
management program

SUMMARY
Currently the City mulches some of its trees on 
a regular basis, which is a good way to support 
organic matter renewal and good soil function. 
The City has also begun to monitor the impact 
of salts on street tree soil. 

Implementing a program to improve soils 
health represents an important opportunity 
to reduce tree mortality and increase canopy 
growth.

ANALYSIS
Injecting liquid biological amendments 
(compost tea) is an effective method of 
improving and maintaining soil health. The City 
is currently in the process of establishing an 
in-house liquid biological amendment program 
to treat all newly planted trees. Long term, the 
City could develop the capacity to treat all street 
trees once a year on a two year cycle.

PROS
Increased survival rates

CONS
Cost, primarily for staff time

IMPACT AREAS

STEM LOSS

GROW CANOPY

4.  ReSPonSe STRaTegieS 

177

Packet Pg. 60

33

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019STRATEGIES
Practice strategy 2C

PRACTICE STRATEGY 2C

Expand watering 
program

SUMMARY
Water availability is the primary determinate of 
tree health. Providing sufficient water during 
establishment, when roots are expanding to 
find additional sources of water is critical to 
their long term success.

ANALYSIS
Given the increased planting targets, the City 
will need to increase its watering program to 
cover an increased number of new trees. In 
addition, the City should consider emergency 
watering during drought.

The current tree contract requires the 
contractor to water newly planted trees for 
three years, and the City currently utilizes the 
Tree Ambassador program to water trees for 
two summers following this initial three year 
period. 
PROS
Increased survival rates

CONS
Increased labor hours

IMPACT AREAS

STEM LOSS

GROW CANOPY

4.  ReSPonSe STRaTegieS 

179

Packet Pg. 61

34

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019STRATEGIES
Practice strategy 3

PRACTICE STRATEGY 3

Establish a gravel bed 
nursery

IMPACT AREAS

SUMMARY
With municipal tree planting, especially at 
large scale, there is an inevitable holding period 
between digging and acquiring the trees and 
planting them. Balled and burlapped trees 
are less likely to survive if they have extended 
periods out of the ground, so their planting 
season is constrained to a few weeks in spring 
and a few in the fall. If cared for properly, bare 
root trees enjoy the benefit of an extended 
planting season. Root dessication is the most 
critical disadvantage to planting bare root trees, 
however, proper care in a gravel bed nursery 
mitigates the risk. 

ANALYSIS
A gravel bed is an irrigated bed of gravel to 
place and safely hold bare root or washed 
containerized stock (aka  “heeling in”) for up to 
3-6 months.  Doing this dramatically increases 
fibrous root volume, decreasing transplant 
shock and increasing survivability of the plant. 
Since bare root stock is typically only available 
during spring, this also allows for staged 
plantings throughout the year.

8,200 sf of space is required to store 456 bare 
root trees

RECOMMENDED FOR 57 2.5"-3" CALIPER TREES

60'-0"

123'-0"

"
0
-
'
3

"
0
-
'
3

"
0
-
'
0
1

"
0
-
'
0
1

STEM LOSS

GROW CANOPY

PROS
Increases root mass at planting

CONS
Initial capital outlay to build beds

Increases survival rates

Extends planting season

PRECEDENTS
PHS, Philadelphia
Various municipalities in Minnesota

4.  ReSPonSe STRaTegieS 

181

Packet Pg. 62

35

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019STRATEGIES
Outreach and education strategy 4B

OUTREACH AND EDUCATION STRATEGY 4B

Support community 
tree planting efforts

SUMMARY
Supporting community tree planting efforts 
may lead citizens to work together and create 
more energy and momentum behind planting 
trees. This may result in groups advocating and 
planting trees within neighborhoods that are 
underserved today.

PRECEDENT
Keep Indianapolis Beautiful is a nonprofit 
organization. They offer a community forestry 
program which residents can apply for tree 
planting if they find at least 20 spots for trees 
in their neighborhood. Applicants need to form 
a small group and need to agree with their 
neighbors and local business owners to commit 
to tree preservation.

IMPACT AREAS

PRECEDENTS
Keep Indianapolis Beautiful

STEM LOSS

GROW CANOPY

4.  ReSPonSe STRaTegieS 

195

Packet Pg. 63

36

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019STRATEGIES
Outreach and education strategy 1C

OUTREACH AND EDUCATION STRATEGY 1C

Educate local 
businesses about 
the dangers of pest 
outbreaks

IMPACT AREAS

SUMMARY
Businesses can help protect the forest by 
ensuring all wood products are pest free by 
using ISPM 15 regulated wood packaging 
material in international trade. 

ANALYSIS
In 2008, the Asian Longhorn Beetle was found 
in Worcester, MA, presumably brought in 
through wood pallets. The city lost 35,000 trees 
either killed by the beetle or felled by foresters 
working to contain the infestation. 

The ISPM 15 standard describes phytosanitary 
measures that reduce the risk of introduction 
and spread of quarantine pests associated with 
the movement in international trade of wood 
packaging material made from raw wood. 

STEM LOSS

GROW CANOPY

4.  ReSPonSe STRaTegieS 

185

Packet Pg. 64

37

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019STRATEGIES
Outreach and education strategy 1B

OUTREACH AND EDUCATION STRATEGY 1B

Organize tree tours 
for citizens to 
engage with trees

SUMMARY
Organizing tree tours could foster good working 
relationships between the community and 
DPW. This is something that the City has 
implemented in the past but currently is not in 
practice. 

ANALYSIS
There are examples of guided walking and 
biking tree tours in neighborhoods and parks 
in various cities. For example, the City of 
Chesapeake, Virginia, organizes guided tours 
once every season, or four times a year. There 
are also self-guided tours that allow citizens 
to access a tree map by using smart phones in 
some cities such as Seattle (Tree Walk app), 
Nevada City, Sacramento, and Atlanta.

IMPACT AREAS

PRECEDENTS
Friends of the Urban Forest, San Francisco
Tree Walk app, Seattle

STEM LOSS

GROW CANOPY

184    CAMBRIDGE URBAN FOREST MASTER PLAN  PRELIMINARY REPORT

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 65

38

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019STRATEGIES
Outreach and education strategy 2B

OUTREACH AND EDUCATION STRATEGY 2B

Publish annual reports 
to document 
progress

SUMMARY
A yearly report card that evaluates the efforts to 
expand the urban forest can remind citizens of 
the state of the forest, communicate the goals of 
this report, and hold communities accountable 
for reaching their goals. 

IMPACT AREAS

PRECEDENTS
Tree Report Card, Washington, D.C.
Cambridge MA Annual Drinking Water Quality Report

ANALYSIS
As an example, Casey Trees’ tree report card 
rates Washington DC’s urban forest based on 
four metrics: Tree coverage, tree health, tree 
planting and tree protection. It also compares 
previous years’ grades. 
As with the Cambridge Water Department’s 
Drinking Water Quality Report, the Urban 
Forest report card could be mailed to all 
residents. 

STEM LOSS

GROW CANOPY

How Is Your Water Purified? 
The source waters of the Cambridge reservoir system undergo extensive treatment at the 
Walter J. Sullivan Water Purification Facility at Fresh Pond Reservation before drinking water 
is delivered to your home or business. The water is treated to exceed all state and federal 
drinking water standards. 

(1) Pretreatment: The first steps in the treatment process combine preoxidation with ozone, 
coagulation and dissolved air flotation (DAF) to remove manganese, natural color, sediment 
and particles, algae, protozoa, viruses and bacteria.

(2) Ozone: Fine bubbles of ozone are dissolved into the water to kill bacteria, viruses, and 
protozoa. 

(3) Filtration: The water passes through granular activated carbon (GAC) to remove organic 
compounds. Filtration also acts as a “polishing step” to remove additional particles, color and 
protozoa. 

(4) Disinfection: Chlorine is used to provide the second step of disinfection for redundancy 
in the overall process and monochloramine is added to maintain a disinfectant residual 
throughout the distribution system.

(5) Post Treatment: The pH of the water is adjusted for corrosion control and fluoride is 
added for dental health.

The Cambridge Water Department’s state-certified laboratory continuously monitors the 
effectiveness of the treatment process and makes adjustments to the treatment to ensure 
the highest quality water.

Come see it for yourself!  Timothy MacDonald, Director of Water Operations, leads tours of 
the City’s beautiful treatment facility. Tours are scheduled for July 9, August 13, September 17, 
October 15, and November 5, and run from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.

1 
Pretreatment

2 
Ozone

3 
Filtration

5 
Post-
Treatment

4 
Disinfection

limits

Did You Know?
 6 The City of Cambridge owns ~1,400 
acres of watershed land outside the City 
 6 Three of our watershed parcels are 
home to 11 different natural plant 
communities and over 160 individual 
native plant species
 6 The City has acquired 127 acres of land 
for water supply protection since 2012

82

gallons 
per day

Go Green 

with Your Machine

There are many ways you can save 
water while still getting clean clothes! 
Combine laundry to run only full 
loads, and check out the settings 
on your machine to select the right 
water levels and load selection. Also, 
by switching to an EPA WaterSense 
washing machine, you can save an 
average of 82 gallons per day, which 
adds up to around 30,000 gallons per 
year, enough to fill a Red Line train car! 
To learn more about EPA WaterSense, 
go to www.epa.gov/watersense

6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6

Where Does Your Water Come From?

Reservoirs
The Cambridge Water System extends across 
four towns and includes four bodies of water. 
The Hobbs Brook Upper Reservoir flows into 
the Hobbs Brook Lower Reservoir and connects 
with the Stony Brook Reservoir. The water then 
flows to the Fresh Pond Reservoir through 
an underground aqueduct. The Stony Brook 
Reservoir watershed extends from Weston 
north into the Town of Lincoln. The watershed 
for the Hobbs Brook Reservoirs includes 
areas of Waltham, Lexington, and Lincoln. 
The watershed for the Fresh Pond Reservoir is 
completely within the City of Cambridge. Storm 
drainage modifications were implemented 
to divert street runoff away from Fresh Pond 
Reservoir. The contributing watershed area 
is the first step in a multi-barrier program to 
protect our drinking water. The combined 
capacity of the Hobbs Brook and Stony Brook 
reservoir system is 3.1 billion gallons; an 
additional 1.3 billion gallons of water is stored  
in Fresh Pond Reservoir. Our water supply 
is backed up by interconnections to the 
Massachusetts Water Resources Authority 
(MWRA) system. For a more detailed map of  
our water sources and their protection areas 
please visit cambridgema.gov/water

Watershed Protection
As part of our ongoing commitment to 
protecting the water supply, we participated 
with the Massachusetts Department of 
Environmental Protection (MassDEP) in 
preparing a Source Water Assessment Program 
(SWAP) Report completed in 2003. The SWAP 
Report assesses the susceptibility of our public 
water supply and notes the key land use and 
protection issues, including: Zone A Land 

Uses, Residential Land Uses, Transportation 
Corridors, Hazardous Material Storage and Use, 
and Presence of Oil or Hazardous Materials 
Contamination Sites. A copy of the Cambridge 
SWAP Report can be found on the MassDEP 
website at mass.gov/eea/docs/dep/water/
drinking/swap/nero/3049000.pdf or at the 
Cambridge Water Department.

Because of the developed nature and types of 
land uses within the Cambridge watershed, our 
source waters are considered as having “high” 
susceptibility to contamination. Susceptibility 
is a measure of a water supply’s potential to 
become contaminated due to land uses and 
activities within its recharge (watershed) area. If 
a source is susceptible to contamination, it does 
not necessarily mean the source has poor water 
quality. The Cambridge Water Department 
has taken the following actions to minimize 
contamination threats to our water supply:

 6 Work cooperatively with watershed towns 
on emergency response and stormwater 
management

 6 Placed spill kits at strategic points within the 

watershed

 6 Actively monitor source water quality 

throughout the watersheds, using the data  
to target source protection

 6 Work cooperatively with businesses in the 
watersheds to encourage source protection

 6 Adopted the Fresh Pond Master Plan, which 
includes long-term protection measures for 
the Fresh Pond Reservation

 6 Dedicated staff resources to inspections, 

public education, and coordination of source 
protection efforts

How Much Energy Does it Take?
 6 The Water Purification Facility (WPF) has 
the largest electrical usage for a single 
municipal facility in the City of Cambridge

 6 The WPF uses an average of 8 million 

kilowatt hours (kWh) of electricity per year, 
or enough to power over 1,000 homes¥
  

 6 At one time, pumping accounted for over 
60% of the total energy use at the WPF.  
We have reduced that by over 50% since 2012!

95

Hobbs Brook Upper Reservoir 
(3049000-04S)

Lincoln

Lexington

Arlington

Treatment
22%

Pumping
64%

We took a look in 
2012 at how we use 
energy at the Water 
Purification Facility…
and got right to 
work on reducing 
the “Biggest User”, 
pumping!

2M

1.5M

1M

500K

)
h
w
k
(
 
e
g
a
s
U

l

 
l
a
c
i
r
t
c
e
E
g
n
p
m
u
P

i

 

Building Systems/Garage–14%

2
1
0
2

3
1
0
2

*
4
1
0
2

5
1
0
2

6
1
0
2

7
1
0
2

8
1
0
2

*In 2014, water was 
supplied by MWRA 
due to construction

¥ Based on 2015 report 
from U.S. Energy 
Information Administration, 
Massachusetts average 
annual electricity 
consumption for a 
residential utility customer 
of approximately 7000 kWh

Hobbs Brook 
Lower Reservoir 
(3049000-01S)

Waltham

Belmont

Fresh Pond 
Reservoir 
(3049000-02S)

Watertown

Cambridge

Stony Brook Reservoir 
(3049000-03S)

Weston

Stony Brook 
Conduit

90

Newton

95

In 2011, the Watershed Division of the 
Cambridge Water Department updated its 
comprehensive Source Water Protection 
Program. The major components of the 
program to ensure a continuous supply of high 
quality water include: 
1.   Extensive monitoring – sampling and 

analysis of water chemistry and microbiology
2.   Hazardous materials emergency response 

planning – to reduce the potential for 
contamination in the watershed

3.   Partnership development – relationship-

building with other parties in the watershed 
with common goals

4.   Proactive site review and monitoring – 
to minimize potential impacts on the 
watershed from construction

5.   Stormwater management – ensuring that 

Best Management Practices are implemented
6.   Community outreach – public relations and 

education

For questions about our source water  
and our protection efforts, please contact 
Watershed Manager David Kaplan at  
dkaplan@cambridgema. gov or 617-349-4799.

You Can Save Money!
The Water Department 
is updating the 
Automated Meter 
Reading (AMR) System 
for improved service. 
We are replacing the 
Meter Transmitting 
Units (MTUs) so we 
can provide actual 
(not estimated) 
water bill readings 
quarterly. The MTU is 
the device connected 
to your water meter 
that transmits 
meter readings to the Water Department. 
This “High Read” program notifies our 
customers soon after we detect unusually 
high water usage, which is typically caused 
by a leak. This notification allows property 
owners to make repairs quickly, saving 
you money and conserving water! 

Rooftop receiving unit 
for daily readings from 
customers’ meters.

We need property owners to update their 
contact information so the Water Department 
can notify you as soon as a “High-Read”  
is detected. Please call Brian McCoy at 
617-349-4737 or email him at HighReads@
cambridgema.gov with your name, account 
number, phone number, mailing address, and 
email address. 

4.  ReSPonSe STRaTegieS 

187

Packet Pg. 66

39

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019DECISION MAKING PROCESS
Regular evaluation and prioritization

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 67

40

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019TREE PROTECTION ORDINANCE
Values

Trees are a shared resource

Everyone is subject to the tree  
ordinance

Trees provide benefits to the city

Voluntary removals necessitate a fee 
that reflects the value of the lost  
resource

Large trees provide greater benefits 
and take longer to regrow

Mitigation requirements are propor-
tionately higher for larger trees, and

The city’s largest trees receive special  
protection

The process should be simple  
and objective

Homeowners and small projects can use a 
streamlined replacement formula, and

Large projects use the exiting special permit 
process and a standard valuation formula

Not all trees are equal

Fees are computed based on health, loca-
tion, and species of tree

The process should be equitable

Owner-occupied properties have reduced  
mitigation requirements, and

Those on financial assistance have all fees 
waived

Replanting in kind is preferred,  
but not all sites and project types 
are equal

The ordinance encourages on-site  
replacement, 

Allows off-site mitigation planting, and

Makes fees paid to the tree fund the 
most expensive option

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 68

41

UFMP TECHNICAL REPORT  REVIEWNOVEMBER 12, 2019TREE PROTECTION ORDINANCE
Proposed revisions

Everyone should be subject to the ordinance
all property types are under the jurisdiction of the ordinance

Protect more trees
all trees over 6” dbh are covered by the ordinance (currently 8”)

Protect the largest trees
protect very large trees (over 30” dbh) from removal in most cases

Value trees more accurately
Use the trunk valuation formula

Ensure equitable application of the ordinance
retain cost mitigation measures

Encourage replanting on private property
expand the uses of mitigation funds (enable a Trust that can plant on private property)

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 69

2.a

n
a
b
r
U
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
d
e
l
t
i
t
n
e
 
s
k
r
o
W
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P

 
f
o
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D
e
h
t
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R
A

 

 
:
 

0
0
9
0
1
(
 
 

n
o
i
t
a
t
n
e
s
e
r
p
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
c
v
n
e
h
t
l
a
e
h
p
m
f
u
2
1
1
1
9
1
0
2
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 70

Wescoat <mfmw2@yahoo.com>
Thursday, January 9, 2020 8:57 AM
Woodbury, Catherine; O'Riordan, Owen; Gary Hilderbrand; Eric Kramer; Nardone, John; 
Putnam, Andrew; Lefcourt, David; Coppinger, Ellen; Bolduc, John; Thorkildsen, Erik; Chan, 
Gary; City Manager; Peterson, Lisa; City Council
Maggie Booz; Chantal Eide; Cynthia Smith; Paula Cortes; Nancy E. Phillips; Michael 
Hanlon; Sophia Emperador; Seanna Berry; Joan Krizack; Nancy Jordalen; Ann MacAdam
Committee on Public Planting Comments on UFMP Technical Report

Wilson, Anthony

From:
Sent:
To:

Cc:

Subject:

Committee on Public Planting

January 9, 2020

Dear City Staff, Reed Hilderbrand Consultant Team, City Manager, and City Council Members:

As a result of the work presented in the Cambridge Urban Forest Master Plan Technical Report 
released in November 2019, we are poised to make a big difference in tree canopy coverage in the 
City of Cambridge. We appreciate the thoughtful and comprehensive scope of the report, the 
expertise of the consultants and task force, and the City’s 
commitment.

Our urban forest and its trees must be valued for what they are: as important as our gas, electric, 
water, and communications lines, our streets, sidewalks, and bicycle lanes. Our trees are living 
infrastructure that are essential to Cambridge’s livability and resilience in the face of accelerating 
climate change. As the Technical Report states, trees mitigate flooding, reduce energy consumption, 
cool urban heat islands, improve public mental and physical health, boost property values, and 
increase tax revenue. The trees clean the air and help to stabilize the climate by sequestering carbon 
above and below ground.

 

Page 29 of the Technical Report states: “...there is no single department or individual who speaks for 
the urban forest”. The Committee on Public Planting recommends that the UFMP include in its Master 
Plan a city position to implement an Accelerated Action Plan (described below). This person would 
integrate horticulture, ecology, and design; would be responsible for the urban forest; and would 
ensure compliance. He or she would coordinate with DPW, CDD, Public Health, TPT, Water 
Department, and the School Department. Staffing would be hired and/or assigned in those 
departments to implement initiatives suggested in the report.

In addition, the Committee strongly recommends an Accelerated Action Plan that includes all of the 
Policy, Design, Practice, and Outreach Strategies detailed in the Technical Report.

We would like to emphasize:

(cid:127)   Establishing zoning regulations requiring shade trees with adequate space and suitable soil 
for them to grow.

1

Packet Pg. 71

3.a

)
g
n
i
t
n
a
l
P
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P
n
o
 
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
C
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C

 
:
 
6
3
2
1
1
(
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R

 
l

 

 

i

 

a
c
n
h
c
e
T
P
M
F
U
n
o
s
t
n
e
m
m
o
C
g
n
i
t
n
a
l
P
 
c
i
l

 

 

b
u
P
n
o
 
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
C

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

3.a

(cid:127)   Ensuring that all neighborhoods and housing types are equitably planted with trees.

(cid:127)   Conducting compliance inspections for tree planting before obtaining certificates of 
occupancy.

(cid:127)   Implementing cool-corridor tree planting at closest appropriate intervals on all major 
corridors.

(cid:127)   Redesigning streets within the City’s ongoing Five-Year Street and Sidewalk reconstruction 
program with tree, bike, and pedestrian infrastructure given priority.

(cid:127)   Increasing canopy planting, using diverse species, in parks, schools, the riverfront, and 
cemeteries.

(cid:127)   Acquiring land for parks by the city in areas identified as heat island—a critical goal.

(cid:127)   Achieving a canopy goal of 40% (National Academy of Sciences states that 40% is the 
minimum adequate to achieve cooling).

(cid:127)   Enhancing protection for existing trees on public and private property. For developers, 
increasing calculations of payments to the tree fund, that reflect the true value of our urban 
forest.

(cid:127)   Working with large property owners (Harvard, MIT, DCR, DOT) to increase the tree canopy 
on their land. 

We believe that the climate crisis demands accelerated and decisive action to expand and enhance 
our urban forest; therefore, we recommend launching these initiatives immediately.

Trees are not decorative landscape elements; they are our environmental infrastructure. They are 
critical to urban survival and quality of life. Our trees are meaningful and beloved by citizens. They 
provide a habitat for birds and pollinators, and a connection to the natural world for urban dwellers. 
Cambridge residents recognize the value of trees and have voted for planting more trees as a top 
priority in Participatory Budgeting again this year. 

We look forward to continuing to support and work with the city on our shared goals, and to a 
“brighter, more shaded future”.

 

 

Respectfully,

 

The Cambridge Committee on Public Planting

Florrie Wescoat and Maggie Booz (Co-chairs), Chantal Eide, Nancy Phillips, Seanna Berry, Michael 
Hanlon, Paula Cortes, Joan Krizack, Sophia Emperardor, Nancy Jordalen, Cynthia Smith, Ann 
MacAdam

)
g
n
i
t
n
a
l
P
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P
n
o
 
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
C
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C

 
:
 
6
3
2
1
1
(
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R

 
l

 

 

i

 

a
c
n
h
c
e
T
P
M
F
U
n
o
s
t
n
e
m
m
o
C
g
n
i
t
n
a
l
P
 
c
i
l

 

 

b
u
P
n
o
 
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
C

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

 

 

 

2

 

Packet Pg. 72

 

3.a

)
g
n
i
t
n
a
l
P
 
c
i
l

 

b
u
P
n
o
 
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
C
 
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C

 
:
 
6
3
2
1
1
(
 
 
t
r
o
p
e
R

 
l

 

 

i

 

a
c
n
h
c
e
T
P
M
F
U
n
o
s
t
n
e
m
m
o
C
g
n
i
t
n
a
l
P
 
c
i
l

 

 

b
u
P
n
o
 
e
e
t
t
i

m
m
o
C

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

3

Packet Pg. 73

(cid:487)

4.a

(cid:487)

(cid:29)(cid:29)(cid:4)(cid:38)(cid:77)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:4)(cid:37)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:40)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:90)(cid:73)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:39)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:72)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:49)(cid:37)(cid:4)(cid:20)(cid:22)(cid:21)(cid:23)(cid:29)(cid:4)(cid:4)(cid:4)(cid:382)(cid:96)(cid:4)(cid:382)(cid:4)(cid:4)(cid:12)(cid:26)(cid:21)(cid:27)(cid:13)(cid:4)(cid:24)(cid:25)(cid:23)(cid:17)(cid:28)(cid:23)(cid:26)(cid:24)(cid:29)(cid:29)(cid:4)(cid:4)(cid:4)(cid:382)(cid:96)(cid:4)(cid:382)(cid:4)(cid:4)(cid:75)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:72)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:18)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:75)(cid:487)
(cid:392)(cid:42)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:89)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:80)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:77)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:74)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:69)(cid:74)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:18)(cid:393)(cid:487)
(cid:487)

(cid:487)
(cid:46)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:21)(cid:22)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:487)
(cid:487)
(cid:40)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:49)(cid:69)(cid:93)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:55)(cid:77)(cid:72)(cid:72)(cid:77)(cid:85)(cid:89)(cid:77)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:58)(cid:77)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:49)(cid:69)(cid:93)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:49)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:39)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:39)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:16)(cid:487)
(cid:487)
(cid:43)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:39)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:72)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:89)(cid:84)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:52)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:71)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:51)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:7)(cid:24)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:39)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:389)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:46)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:21)(cid:23)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:487)
(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:81)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:89)(cid:81)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:90)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:93)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:77)(cid:75)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:74)(cid:77)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:18)(cid:4)(cid:51)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:91)(cid:77)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:487)
(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:89)(cid:81)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:84)(cid:77)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:49)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:4)(cid:21)(cid:21)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:76)(cid:77)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:90)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:4)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:90)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:81)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:487)
(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:56)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:52)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:51)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:18)(cid:487)
(cid:487)
(cid:59)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:75)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:90)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:89)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:39)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:72)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:389)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:81)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:16)(cid:487)
(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:81)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:89)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:69)(cid:90)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:487)
(cid:77)(cid:87)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:73)(cid:74)(cid:74)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:89)(cid:86)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:94)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:18)(cid:4)(cid:50)(cid:83)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:90)(cid:77)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:89)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:70)(cid:487)
(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:70)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:18)(cid:4)(cid:37)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:90)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:81)(cid:84)(cid:80)(cid:73)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:39)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:93)(cid:389)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:69)(cid:74)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:487)
(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:81)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:90)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:70)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:71)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:88)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:74)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:89)(cid:87)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:80)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:487)
(cid:87)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:87)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:4)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:18)(cid:4)(cid:54)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:77)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:80)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:89)(cid:84)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:30)(cid:487)
(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:75)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:4)(cid:90)(cid:83)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:17)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:52)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:71)(cid:77)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:38)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:87)(cid:18)(cid:487)
(cid:487)
(cid:41)(cid:92)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:89)(cid:81)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:87)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:93)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:89)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:57)(cid:86)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:42)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:49)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:52)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:487)
(cid:91)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:93)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:31)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:77)(cid:72)(cid:17)(cid:87)(cid:89)(cid:81)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:89)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:89)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:4)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:80)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:50)(cid:83)(cid:90)(cid:73)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:18)(cid:4)(cid:56)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:487)
(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:74)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:4)(cid:74)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:74)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:81)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:77)(cid:90)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:81)(cid:84)(cid:80)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:487)
(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:75)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:71)(cid:77)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:4)(cid:75)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:89)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:74)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:81)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:4)(cid:23)(cid:20)(cid:20)(cid:17)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:80)(cid:89)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:27)(cid:20)(cid:20)(cid:487)
(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:77)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:79)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:72)(cid:77)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:39)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:81)(cid:81)(cid:89)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:72)(cid:77)(cid:87)(cid:71)(cid:89)(cid:87)(cid:87)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:18)(cid:4)(cid:56)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:16)(cid:487)
(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:89)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:89)(cid:81)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:90)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:31)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:80)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:50)(cid:83)(cid:90)(cid:73)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:22)(cid:29)(cid:28)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:81)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:487)
(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:75)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:74)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:90)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:4)(cid:12)(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:93)(cid:13)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:12)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:23)(cid:24)(cid:29)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:84)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:13)(cid:18)(cid:4)(cid:52)(cid:89)(cid:70)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:71)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:487)
(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:90)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:74)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:90)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:91)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:94)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:90)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:487)
(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:81)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:18)(cid:487)(cid:487)
(cid:487)
(cid:56)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:57)(cid:42)(cid:49)(cid:52)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:89)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:81)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:84)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:87)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:76)(cid:77)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:90)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:21)(cid:26)(cid:18)(cid:25)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:487)
(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:20)(cid:29)(cid:18)(cid:4)(cid:56)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:22)(cid:26)(cid:9)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:21)(cid:28)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:9)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:80)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:20)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:79)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:487)
(cid:70)(cid:83)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:90)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:18)(cid:487)
(cid:487)
(cid:56)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:87)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:77)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:81)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:90)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:93)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:25)(cid:28)(cid:9)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:93)(cid:487)
(cid:77)(cid:87)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:27)(cid:22)(cid:9)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:20)(cid:29)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:89)(cid:80)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:90)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:18)(cid:487)
(cid:487)
(cid:487)

)
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
n
e
e
r
G

 

 
:
 

7
3
2
1
1
(
 
 

 

e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
n
e
e
r
G
m
o
r
f
 
r
e
t
t
e

 

i

 

l
 
t
r
o
p
p
u
s
n
o
s
n
e
t
x
e
 
O
P
T
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 74

(cid:487)
(cid:487)
(cid:487)
(cid:42)(cid:89)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:91)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:12)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:79)(cid:4)(cid:89)(cid:84)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:80)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:23)(cid:20)(cid:9)(cid:13)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:487)
(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:81)(cid:84)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:77)(cid:81)(cid:84)(cid:80)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:87)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:70)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:71)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:88)(cid:17)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:17)(cid:91)(cid:69)(cid:93)(cid:18)(cid:4)(cid:54)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:4)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:487)
(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:69)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:91)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:89)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:40)(cid:39)(cid:54)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:487)
(cid:87)(cid:89)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:17)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:17)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:17)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:79)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:75)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:93)(cid:18)(cid:487)
(cid:487)
(cid:42)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:93)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:80)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:4)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:56)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:52)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:51)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:12)(cid:56)(cid:52)(cid:51)(cid:13)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:487)
(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:75)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:83)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:39)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:81)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:39)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:54)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:62)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:56)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:4)(cid:42)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:4)(cid:38)(cid:77)(cid:71)(cid:93)(cid:71)(cid:80)(cid:73)(cid:487)
(cid:50)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:91)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:4)(cid:52)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:42)(cid:77)(cid:90)(cid:73)(cid:17)(cid:61)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:17)(cid:55)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:55)(cid:77)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:91)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:4)(cid:52)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:18)(cid:4)(cid:56)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:89)(cid:80)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:81)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:93)(cid:487)
(cid:88)(cid:93)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:89)(cid:70)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:56)(cid:52)(cid:51)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:89)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:74)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:4)(cid:392)(cid:87)(cid:77)(cid:75)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:74)(cid:77)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:393)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:16)(cid:487)
(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:90)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:18)(cid:4)(cid:45)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:81)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:75)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:74)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:487)
(cid:74)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:4)(cid:90)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:89)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:90)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:89)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:77)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:74)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:487)
(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:56)(cid:52)(cid:51)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:89)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:85)(cid:89)(cid:77)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:74)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:75)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:89)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:87)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:89)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:90)(cid:77)(cid:94)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:17)(cid:84)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:487)
(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:18)(cid:487)(cid:487)
(cid:487)
(cid:56)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:87)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:89)(cid:75)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:74)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:87)(cid:81)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:89)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:90)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:75)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:74)(cid:89)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:17)(cid:84)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:90)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:487)
(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:87)(cid:77)(cid:70)(cid:80)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:90)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:74)(cid:89)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:56)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:56)(cid:86)(cid:89)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:18)(cid:487)(cid:487)
(cid:487)
(cid:43)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:39)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:72)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:90)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:90)(cid:83)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:90)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:57)(cid:42)(cid:49)(cid:52)(cid:18)(cid:4)(cid:38)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:487)
(cid:72)(cid:77)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:4)(cid:40)(cid:52)(cid:59)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:81)(cid:81)(cid:89)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:79)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:39)(cid:54)(cid:48)(cid:55)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:88)(cid:93)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:75)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:89)(cid:86)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:74)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:93)(cid:487)
(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:90)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:90)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:57)(cid:42)(cid:49)(cid:52)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:81)(cid:81)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:71)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:74)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:44)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:56)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:75)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:4)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:487)
(cid:87)(cid:89)(cid:81)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:71)(cid:77)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:70)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:71)(cid:4)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:487)
(cid:77)(cid:81)(cid:84)(cid:80)(cid:73)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:57)(cid:42)(cid:49)(cid:52)(cid:4)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:81)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:18)(cid:487)
(cid:487)
(cid:38)(cid:89)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:74)(cid:77)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:89)(cid:81)(cid:4)(cid:81)(cid:89)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:4)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:4)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:72)(cid:4)(cid:45)(cid:4)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:93)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:4)(cid:91)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:4)(cid:90)(cid:83)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:89)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:81)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:87)(cid:80)(cid:93)(cid:4)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:4)(cid:87)(cid:83)(cid:18)(cid:487)
(cid:487)
(cid:55)(cid:77)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:93)(cid:16)(cid:487)
(cid:487)
(cid:487)
(cid:55)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:90)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:50)(cid:89)(cid:88)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:37)(cid:45)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:487)
(cid:41)(cid:92)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:89)(cid:88)(cid:77)(cid:90)(cid:73)(cid:4)(cid:40)(cid:77)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:487)
(cid:43)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:4)(cid:39)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:86)(cid:77)(cid:72)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:487)

4.a

)
e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
n
e
e
r
G

 

 
:
 

7
3
2
1
1
(
 
 

 

e
g
d
i
r
b
m
a
C
n
e
e
r
G
m
o
r
f
 
r
e
t
t
e

 

i

 

l
 
t
r
o
p
p
u
s
n
o
s
n
e
t
x
e
 
O
P
T
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 75

Wilson, Anthony

From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Hello all of you..

hmsnively@aol.com
Monday, January 13, 2020 10:41 AM
City Council
Tree canopy protection..please extend it

So...please please renew the moratorium.

Thank you

Helen Snively
1 Fayette park

The tree task force did a good job..but it took longer than expected. Meanwhile the moratorium on cutting is running 
out. And we need it. 

5.a

)
y
l
e
v
i
n
S
n
e
l
e
H

 

 
:
 
8
3
2
1
1
(
 
 
t
i
 

d
n
e
t
x
e

 

e
s
a
e
p

l

.
.

n
o
i
t
c
e
t
o
r
p
y
p
o
n
a
c

 

 

e
e
r
T
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

1

Packet Pg. 76

Wilson, Anthony

From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Elisabeth Werby <eawerby@gmail.com>
Monday, January 13, 2020 12:04 PM
City Council
Trees Matter!

Please extend the moratorium on removing healthy significant trees on private property through December 31, allowing
appropriate time for the ordinance to be amended in alignment with the recommendations from the Urban 
Forest Master Plan Task Force without hasting through the process. 

Preserving and expanding our tree canopy benefits all Cambridge citizens. There is no reason to let the 
moratorium expire.

Thank you,
Elisabeth Werby
7 Wright St.

6.a

)
y
b
r
a
W
h
t
e
b
a
s

 

i
l

E

 

 
:
 
9
3
2
1
1
(
 
 
r
e
t
t
a
M
s
e
e
r
T
 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

1

Packet Pg. 77

Wilson, Anthony

From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:

Carol O'Hare <cbo1066@gmail.com>
Monday, January 13, 2020 1:03 PM
City Council
Wilson, Anthony; Walter McDonald
Extend Tree-Protection Moratorium

Carol OHare & Walter McDonald
172 Magazine St.

Cc: Anthony Wilson, City Clerk - Please file this with the Official Record.

Please extend the moratoroum so that the Task Force's work and recommendations can be considered and effectuated.

7.a

)
e
r
a
H
O

'

 
l

o
r
a
C

 
:
 
0
4
2
1
1
(
 
 

 

m
u
i
r
o
t
a
r
o
M
n
o
i
t
c
e
t
o
r
P
-
e
e
r
T
d
n
e
t
x
E

 

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

1

Packet Pg. 78

8.a

Wilson, Anthony

From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Abra Berkowitz <abraberkowitz@outlook.com>
Monday, January 13, 2020 1:36 PM
City Council
Support for Policy Orders 2, 4 & #255 on Surveillance

Dear Honorable Mayor Siddiqui and City Councilors,

Congratulations on beginning the new term! I look forward to two years of governance by a dream team of 
policymaker public servants. I seriously think this Council will get a lot done that we can all agree on. I am 
writing to offer my detailed support for Policy Order 4 as well as mention my support for Policy Order 2 
reporting on stakeholder meetings addressing tourism and the arts and #255 from December on an 
Amendment to the Surveillance Ordinance.

Support for Policy Order #4: I am offering my support for an extension to the amendments of the Tree 
Protection Ordinance, because I believe that the Ordinance is working. In North Cambridge, I saw several 
homes with tree-filled setbacks go on the market over the summer. When construction began in the fall, the 
trees were either left in place or removed after receiving a permit. This was a departure from the "clear cut 
because it makes the property easier to work with" mentality which has exacerbated our city's tree loss over 
the past decade.

While working as the Supervisor to the Tree Ambassadors over the summer, I was flagged down by several 
contractors who identified me as an employee under the Cambridge arborist. They made an effort to show me 
how they were working around the trees or, if they were in the process of removal, told me they had received 
a permit. I hadn't asked for this information, but clearly the folks working on the houses were aware that 
trees were a priority in Cambridge and that there were new, enforceable requirements.

I have many students who work on renovation projects and they will admit that a common approach is to just 
remove the trees in front and behind houses to place dumpsters and more easily move around the property. 
But, my students have also told me that clear cutting isn't the only option, and that with disincentives and 
forethought it can in many cases be avoided. This policy is causing folks redeveloping homes in the city to 
think twice before clearing out their property's open space.

I would also like to add that the Department of Forestry is doing an excellent job helping folks encountering 
the Ordinance understand it better. Over the summer, I witnessed many phone calls by developers and 
contractors to the Superintendent of Urban Forestry, Andrew Putnam. Andrew handled the calls well, 
explaining clearly how the regulations applied, what terms like "significant tree removal" and "dead or 
dangerous" meant, as well as walking callers through the process of applying for a permit if removal was 
necessary. The folks calling Andrew also clearly wanted to make sure their actions were above board. As a 
concerned neighbor, I experienced how thorough Andrew and his staff were. After three trees visible from the 
street were cut down at 64 Richdale, I emailed Andrew to inquire about if the new owners had obtained a 
permit. Andrew responded quickly with a screenshot of the permits attached to the property, including those 
for tree removal. This is to say, not only does the ordinance amendment seem to be working, but it seems 
that the officials tasked with implementing the regulations have a handle on them.

)
z
t
i

w
o
k
r
e
B
 
a
r
b
A

 
:
 
1
4
2
1
1
(
 
 

e
c
n
a

l
l
i

 

e
v
r
u
S
n
o
5
5
2
#

 

 
 

4

 

2

 

s
r
e
d
r
O
y
c

 

i
l

o
P
 
r
o
f
 
t
r
o
p
p
u
S

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Thank you for your consideration- onward into 2020!

1

Packet Pg. 79

Best,

Abra Berkowitz
16 Walden St. #2R
Cambridge

Sent from Outlook

8.a

)
z
t
i

w
o
k
r
e
B
 
a
r
b
A

 
:
 
1
4
2
1
1
(
 
 

e
c
n
a

l
l
i

 

e
v
r
u
S
n
o
5
5
2
#

 

 
 

4

 

2

 

s
r
e
d
r
O
y
c

 

i
l

o
P
 
r
o
f
 
t
r
o
p
p
u
S

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

2

Packet Pg. 80

Wilson, Anthony

From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Wescoat <mfmw2@yahoo.com>
Monday, January 13, 2020 5:03 PM
City Council; Clerk
Support for PO#4

Dear Mayor Siddiqui and City Councillors,

I am writing in support of PO#4 to extend the TPO through the end of 2020.
Urban Forest Task Force and believe that it is essential to stem the loss of tree canopy. Trees are an 
essential component of Cambridge's resilience to climate change.

I am a member of the 

Please vote to extend the moratorium until the Urban Forest Master Plan/Task Force has completed 
its work and made recommendations, to ensure an effective and considered TPO.

Sincerely,
Florrie Wescoat
Committee on Public Planting
Urban Forest Task Force

9.a

)
t
a
o
c
s
e
W
e

 

i
r
r
o
F
 
:
 

l

3
4
2
1
1
(
 
 

4
#
O
P
 
r
o
f
 
t
r
o
p
p
u
S

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

1

Packet Pg. 81

10.a

d

r

a

v

r

a

H

 

,

y

e

c

u

L

 

.

J

 

s

a

m

o

h

T

 

m

o

r

f

 

d

e

v

i

e

c

e

r

 

s

a

w

 

n

o

i

t

a

c

i

n

u

m

m

o

c

 

A

 

:

 

4

4

2

1

1

(

 

 

y

n

o

m

i

t

s

e

t

 

.

m

m

o

C

 

.

v

n

E

 

&

 

h

t

l

a

e

H

 

l

i

c

n

u

o

C

 

y

t

i

C

 

0

2

-

2

2

-

1

 

:

t

n

e

m

h

c

a

t

t

A

Packet Pg. 82

10.a

d

r

a

v

r

a

H

 

,

y

e

c

u

L

 

.

J

 

s

a

m

o

h

T

 

m

o

r

f

 

d

e

v

i

e

c

e

r

 

s

a

w

 

n

o

i

t

a

c

i

n

u

m

m

o

c

 

A

 

:

 

4

4

2

1

1

(

 

 

y

n

o

m

i

t

s

e

t

 

.

m

m

o

C

 

.

v

n

E

 

&

 

h

t

l

a

e

H

 

l

i

c

n

u

o

C

 

y

t

i

C

 

0

2

-

2

2

-

1

 

:

t

n

e

m

h

c

a

t

t

A

Packet Pg. 83

