 

In City Council October 19, 2020 

 
 
 
 
 
 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND UNIVERSITY RELATIONS  
COMMITTEE MEMBERS 
 
Vice Mayor Alanna M. Mallon, Chair 
Councillor Patricia M. Nolan 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler 
Councillor Timothy J. Toomey, Jr. 
Councillor Quinton J. Zondervan 
 
The Economic Development and University Relations Committee held a public hearing on           
Thursday, July 30, 2020 at 10:00 a.m. in the Sullivan Chamber to receive an update on the Retail Land 
Use Initiative and Retail Table of Land Use Update. 
 
Present at the hearing were Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Toomey, Naomie Stephen, and Paula M. 
Crane, Deputy City Clerk. 
   
Present via Zoom were Councillor Nolan, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Councillor Zondervan, Iram 
Farooq, Assistant City Manager for Community Development, City Solicitor Nancy Glowa, Jeff Roberts, 
Zoning and Development Director, and Pardis Saffari, Senior Economic Development Manager. 
 
Vice Mayor Mallon convened the hearing and welcomed all present.  She read the Governor’s Order 
regarding remote participation and the Call of the Meeting.  She requested a Roll Call to indicate a 
quorum for the hearing.   
 
The roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
PRESENT: 

Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Nolan, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Councillor 
 
Toomey, and Councillor Zondervan 

-5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-0 

 
ABSENT: 
 
and a quorum was present.   
 
Vice Mayor Mallon read from a prepared written statement.  She said that updated the Table of Land 
Uses has taken an incredibly long time and that the delay in implementing changes since these changes 
were first proposed in 2015 has cost the small business community considerably.  The Table of Land 
Uses must reflect the changing face of retail, and during COVID-19, we must ensure maximum flexibility 
for small businesses, and eliminate or reduce hurdles within the City. She said hammering out the final 
details and delivering a new Table of Land Uses will help allow retail districts thrive and ensure a healthy 
economic recovery. 
 
Vice Mayor Mallon introduced Assistant City Manager Farooq. Assistant City Manager Farooq said that 
updating the Table of Land Uses was more complex than they anticipated. Subsequent to the 2015 
assessment of the Table of Land Uses, they created a Retail Strategic Plan which led the City to prioritize 
the retail components of the Use Table and work to ensure it aligns with the changing face of retail.  
Assistant City Manager Farooq introduced Jeff Roberts, Pardis Saffari, and Solicitor Glowa. Assistant 
City Manager Farooq explained they have been working closely with the Inspectional Services 

Department, as they have helped develop, and will eventually help enforce, the updated Table of Land 
Uses. 
 
Pardis Saffari and Jeff Roberts gave a summary of the PowerPoint presentation (Attachment A).   
 
Vice Mayor Mallon said that the presentation was comprehensive and summed up a lot of the work that 
has been over a number of years.  She said that she is pleased to have the discussion.  She recognized that 
Councillor Carlone and Mayor Siddiqui were present via Zoom. Vice Mayor Mallon invited the City 
Councillors to ask questions. 
 
Councillor Zondervan stated that it was an excellent presentation.  There is a lot of detail in the 
definitions and he wonders why we need all these regulations for zoning.  What is the driving force to 
maintain this very complex, inflexible Table of Uses?  He said that he understands that there are licensing 
requirements around food and alcohol, and noise restrictions, but there are many regulations that help 
govern how businesses operate.  Why do we need to restrict where a restaurant can be located?  How did 
this detailed level of location regulation evolve? Jeff Roberts acknowledged that there is a Zoning 
Ordinance and it is necessary to state affirmatively in the code what kinds of uses are allowed in what 
places.  We must have zoning of some sort, and the question from a policy perspective is what that zoning 
should be, how permissive, how restrictive, and in what areas.  Retail, because of its history in 
Cambridge, has more restrictive zoning than if it were being zoned totally new today.  It does lay out a set 
of rules which have shaped the kind of retail environment that we currently have and that a lot of 
businesses, property owners, and residents rely on to create some predictability in what is and what is not 
permitted.  There is a question on adjusting regulations to treat retail uses more permissively.  There has 
to be something in zoning that says, “this is what we mean by retail use” and “this is how we categorize 
them.”   He said that anything done in zoning must be appropriate within the statue.  There are broader 
state limitations on how far one can go with different zoning approaches.  We need zoning as a part of 
practice, and the City Council can decide what it should look like from a policy perspective, within legal 
bounds.  
 
Assistant City Manager Farooq said that zoning is a dance between providing flexibility and providing 
predictability.  Predictability is important for those who might want to open a business and even more so 
for abutters.  She said that zoning consistently responds to the needs of that particular time, protecting the 
property owners and tenants, as well as inhabitants of the area.  She said that greater permissibility within 
the more core business districts and more predictability near residential districts would perhaps serve the 
interest of everyone.  That is one of the themes in the formulation of this proposal.  She said that many of 
the granular complaints before the Inspectional Services Department is the impact of the abutting use of a 
business on next door neighbors, particularly residences.  
 
Councillor Zondervan said that the impact is what is important, and the zoning is a complicated way to 
get it.  Impact seems to be a simpler way to address concerns, and that this does not need to necessarily be 
tied to zoning.  His preference is being maximally flexible, especially as COVID has increased need for 
small businesses.  Why do we need any parking requirements going forward?  Why not say that there is 
no parking requirement and if the business cannot work without parking, it will not be located there.  
Assistant City Manager Farooq said that she does not have a response, as these are issues for the City 
Council to consider.  Businesses may also have thoughts on this subject as well.  She said that this is one 
of the issues that comes up again and again as a challenge for retailors.  Jeff Roberts added that they are 
trying to incorporate strategies.  They are looking at small retail in existing business area type conditions 
rather than new retail where parking requirements come into play more.  There are parts of the City where 
we have adopted zoning where minimum parking requirements for commercial use after working closely 
with traffic planners.  He said that he would want information from transportation planners before 
eliminating baseline parking requirements everywhere.   

 
Councillor Zondervan said that his preference is to move in that direction.  He said that these 
conversations take place to work toward eliminating all the minimum parking requirements and lowering 
maximum parking allowed to align with City goals for moving away from being car oriented.  If people 
are arriving in private vehicles, they should park in public garages, rather than business-specific parking. 
 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler stated that he is glad to see that proposed changes are about simplifying 
uses.  He asked the Solicitor, re: abutting uses, if there another reason for it?  Why have all these 
distinctions and zoning districts?  Can we favor local businesses with zoning over chains and corporate 
establishments?  Solicitor Glowa responded that it is not legally permissible although she would like to do 
more research.  She said that generally you cannot regulate who owns property, but you can regulate the 
uses permitted.  The case law is clear that is not permissible to prohibit large chains.  We should focus 
more on the uses that we want allowed or permitted.  She said that the general starting principle with 
zoning is that things are not allowed unless stated, and that people must seek a special permit or a 
variance to go outside those parameters.  Having zoning that allows people to do whatever they want 
would deprive others of the ability to regulate things they do not want.  The principle of zoning is to 
balance uniformity and consistency so that people can rely on, so that when a district is designated as 
primarily residential or primarily commercial, they know what uses to expect. 
 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler said that it seems a couple of uses, such as Fast Order Food, are not 
working as intended.  It would be easier to say we do not want corporate chains, rather than trying to 
define fast order food. 
 
Re: abutting use, can Assistant City Manager Farooq provide examples of people not wanting certain 
types of businesses?  Assistant City Manager Farooq said that Solicitor Glowa may have more examples.  
Complaints tend to be not at the inception of something.  She said that over time, the neighbors tend to 
complain about too much noise from a business or odors.  One example was on Prospect Street where 
there used to be a retail bakery/café. There was a desire to put in a coffee roastery and people were 
concerned about the odors.  She said that we need to look at what will happen if a use is allowed and if it 
makes sense at a particular site.  She said that in other areas, if it is more on a corridor, such a business 
would be fine.  She said that this may be a reason to have some level of stratification to allow to think 
through the impacts in certain areas.  Zoning allows the regulation of performance.  Solicitor Glowa said 
that over the years the City has seen everything from noise, odors, general activity.  At times there may be 
complaints about accessory uses in a residence for a home business.  There could be more traffic coming 
and going.  Airbnb is a good example of this.  Drop offs at all hours of the night.  Little things start 
bothering people.  She said that a lot of it comes down to quality of life issues in residential areas.  What 
impact the activity has on the community. 
 
Jeff Roberts said that it is true that there are often complaints that come about when a new business is 
established.  The cannabis stores story relates to community perception and the relationship between the 
city permitting cannabis and then from specific neighborhoods is not unusual.  Councillor Sobrinho-
Wheeler said that he feels the same as Councillor Zondervan about parking requirements.  He said that it 
will be interesting to hear the perspective of business owners.   
 
Councillor Nolan said that as a new member she is thrilled that this is before the committee.  She said that 
she hopes that these can be pushed forward as soon as possible.  She said that she is committed to moving 
this forward as soon as possible.  Seems clear to her.  She said that re: timing and cost estimates, she 
believes that they underestimate the true time and the true cost.  She said that the real question is to limit 
the impact on neighborhoods is traffic, odors, etc. Why is there any use delineation? If we are trying to 
limit impact, can there not be a simplified chart?  She would vote for a radically simplified zoning.  She 

asked if we can consolidate all uses into one chart with no distinctions whatsoever, or consolidate 
categories.   
 
Vice Mayor Mallon said CDD walked through why zoning is important.  She understands desire for 
maximum flexibility, especially to support small businesses as COVID changes things dramatically.  She 
asked Assistant City Manager Farooq and Jeff Roberts if they have additional thoughts.  Assistant City 
Manager Farooq said that they will take that response back to staff as we move to the next level. 
 
Councillor Nolan said that she wonders if there are other cities that are doing Land Use reform.  Berkeley 
was mentioned during the presentation, but are there any others?  Jeff Roberts said that many cities are 
looking broadly at their entire zoning, not their retail code.  He said that Berkeley is the one example 
mostly aligned with what could be done in the City of Cambridge. Other municipalities have sometimes 
expanded their use categories. 
 
Councillor Nolan is glad to see discussion related to consolidating categories.   
 
Councillor Carlone saluted CDD staff for the excellent presentation.  He said that the approach is right on 
target.  Without zoning you will not maintain integrity and value of districts.  He said that zoning 
reinforces what is unique about Cambridge and then tries to enhance it.  Implementing an urban design 
plan cannot be done without zoning.  On Slide 48 this is an excellent way to simplify and be more 
realistic about retail needs.  What do specific neighborhoods need, what do they ask for in district zoning?  
He said that he remembers when Dunkin Donuts wanted to come between Harvard and Porter Square 
when there were eleven other locations within two miles, and the neighborhood fought against it.  Want to 
make things simpler but what gives a neighborhood character are unique shops.  You can say you can 
limit zoning to small shops.  There are ways to focus on what you want and what you don’t want on 
individual strips.  He said that re: schedule, assuming feedback is given, it will go to Ordinance 
Committee.  As Chair of the Ordinance Committee, the schedule has been delayed given unknown 
ordinance committee meetings upcoming.  What are the hopes for delivering a package to the City 
Council?  Assistant City Manager Farooq stated that they are focused on this topic and would like to 
advance it soon.  Hope is that if they get the City Council general blessing on the proposed zoning 
direction, they will go to the next step in creating zoning language.  She said that once they have the 
zoning language and forward it to the City Council, there will be the entire rezoning process which could 
take approximately 6 months, at least 4 months.  Jeff Roberts echoed Assistant City Manager Farooq’s 
timeline.  He noted that the nature of this work makes it hard to put to an exact timeframe.  The internal 
review and testing process with ISP is going to be key.  They will move forward in earnest to get it done 
but the timeframe by Assistant City Manager Farooq is good, but it may take longer to ensure that what is 
being delivered will work.  Councillor Carlone said that he knows that this will take time because zoning 
is complicated, and he gives enormous credit for the presentation.   
 
Vice Mayor Mallon said that what is being done with this zoning update is complicated in its’ trying to 
simplify.  She moved to public comment. 
 
Jason Alves at 11:36 am. Stated that he appreciates the advancement and that it has come up a lot at the 
Small Business Task Force.  Great to hear that everyone wants maximum leniency.  Any trip to the Board 
of Zoning Appeals is delayed and expenses get held up because of this.  He said that when a use is 
deleted, what happens if this particular type of business is in existence in the City?  Would not want to see 
them have difficulties if they wanted to expand their businesses.  Re: accessory uses, it is an odd thing.  
He said that it seems that there are other ways to regulate problems that will arise with accessory uses.  
Re: Hampshire Street, it is not in a business zone and there are a lot of small, commercial spaces with a 
lower cost of entry.  He does not know how these businesses will be protected in these zoning changes.  
Encouraged by the notion of removing parking requirements.  

 
Councillor Toomey made a motion to close Public Comment. The roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
YEAS:   
Toomey,  

Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Nolan, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Councillor 

Councillor Zondervan 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-5 

-0 

 
ABSENT:  

 

and Public Comment was closed. 
  
 
Vice Mayor Mallon asked Assistant City Manager Farooq and Jeff Roberts about how implementing a 
zoning model similar to Berkley’s, where restaurant uses have just three categories: carryout food store, 
quick service restaurant, and full service restaurant, could work in Cambridge and if that example that 
could be implemented?  Jeff Roberts said that if you go to the detail, it seems complicated, but it would 
mean taking restaurants, fast order food, and other food services uses, and making it one item in the Table 
of Uses.  It would all fall into the same use category in the zoning ordinance.  That means that how it is 
regulated around the City would have more consistency.  Could look at other kinds of limitations, like 
size, so long as they can be easily understood by businesses and easily applied by zoning.  Vice Mayor 
Mallon asked if this would replace or consolidate Zoning Ordinance Section 4.35 subsections E, F, and O 
or just subsections E and F?  Jeff Roberts said that what Berkeley did was separate more sit-down 
restaurants and bars from fast order food establishments and combined those together.  In our case, it 
would combine O with E and F.   
 
Councillor Zondervan said that he did not hear a convincing argument for why we are approaching this 
zoning the way we are other than historical legacy.  He is reminded of last term when there were issues 
with wood-fired restaurants generating a lot of smoke, and that ultimately was not a zoning issue.  How 
do we formally explore this alternative of regulating based on impact?  What is an alternative regulatory 
regime based on impact requirements a business must meet to be able to exist there? Would like to 
formally request a draft or proposal we could consider as an alternative.  Assistant City Manager Farooq 
said that they hear the committee’s feedback on the desire for simplifying further with greater flexibility 
around retail uses.  She said that in terms of a completely different alternative approach, when they try to 
create something that is a significant change, it is usually not a quick and simple endeavor, especially 
with something as complicated as zoning.  We could be setting ourselves on a much longer path if we are 
to consider a completely different alternative approach.  It could be done, but it cannot be done in a matter 
of weeks or months.  Her recommendation would be that they take the committee’s feedback and modify 
conceptual proposal, as opposed to completely re-thinking the ordinance in the interest of advancing the 
changes further.  If an alternative path is preferred, they will take lead from the City Council.   
 
Vice Mayor Mallon said a complete reimaging would be time-consuming and small businesses simply do 
not have that time.  CDD is understanding that the committee wants to allow for maximum flexibility and 
that their revisions will speak to that.  This initial proposal came five years ago. There is a time sensitivity 
in making sure this gets done.  This is a necessary need in moving through COVID, and into and past the 
recovery phase.  Vice Mayor Mallon suggests that CDD take the committee’s recommendations and come 
back with something that the committee will be happy with, to advance to the full City Council.  She said 
that CDD has heard from business associations across the City that they are in favor of moving forward 
with this approach.  If Councillor Zondervan is making a formal motion for an alternative proposal, there 
would need a vote.  But that would not be the direction that she votes moving forward. 
 

Councillor Zondervan said that he agrees with Vice Mayor Mallon and Assistant City Manager Farooq, 
and he is not suggesting that they start over.  He is looking beyond what is being done and he appreciates 
the proposal before the committee.  Appreciates that CDD is hearing that the committee wants more 
flexibility.  He is not making formal motion but asking that we move in that direction going forward.   
 
Councillor Nolan supports Vice Mayor Mallon’s statements and moving forward as quickly as possible.  
She said that as CDD comes back, the committee is hoping for another kind of revamping, and that 
should be kept in mind, so these revisions do not impede further revamping in that direction.  
 
Vice Mayor Mallon thanked CDD for the presentation and proposal.  She said that CDD has the 
committee’s blessing to move forward in this direction.  She said that the committee wants CDD to move 
as quickly as possible with maximum flexibility in terms of parking requirements, new uses, definitions, 
and how we are delineating our food uses.  
 
Regarding home-based businesses, Vice Mayor Mallon said that residents would like to see this 
addressed.  She said that CDD including some language on this would be very helpful and would ensure 
equity.  She said it will be helpful to get some feedback from Denise Jillson, Michael Monestime and 
Jason Alves around parking, consolidation of food establishments, and anything else.  This should be a 
larger discussion, and future conversations at the Small Business Advisory Committee Meeting will be 
helpful. 
 
Vice Mayor Mallon asked Solicitor Glowa to answer Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler’s questions around 
restricting certain ownership.  Solicitor Glowa opined that she would need to provide a thorough 
response.  She would like this information received by the committee. 
 
Vice Mayor Mallon thanked all those present for their attendance. 
 
On a motion from Councillor Zondervan to adjourn the hearing, the roll was called and resulted as 
follows: 
 
YEAS: 

Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Nolan, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Councillor 
 
Toomey, and Councillor Zondervan 

-5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-0 

 

 

 

 

 

 
ABSENT: 
 
 
The hearing adjourned at 11:58 a.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                            
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

For the Committee, 

________________________________ 
Vice Mayor Alanna M. Mallon, Chair 
Economic Development and University Relations 
Committee 

