GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS, RULES & CLAIMS 
COMMITTEE 
 

  Thursday, March 12, 2020 

Sullivan Chamber 

COMMITTEE MEETING 

~ MINUTES ~ 

5:30 PM 

  Call to Order 

Attendee Name 
E. Denise Simmons 

Marc C. McGovern 

Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler 

Timothy J. Toomey 

Quinton Zondervan 

 

Present 

Absent 

Late 

Arrived 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

  Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee will meet to continue discussion on extending 

the contract of City Manager Louis A. DePasquale beyond January 2021 

 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Good evening, a quorum of the Government Operations, Rules, and Claims committee being present 
and the time of the meeting having arrived, I will call this meeting to order. We have with us present 
this  evening,  Councillor  Sobrinho-Wheeler,  Councillor  Toomey,  Councillor  Simmons,  Councillor 
McGovern,  Councillor  Carlone.  And  up  here  I  have  Neal  Alpert,  aide  city  councilor  and  our  city 
clerk  Anthony  Wilson.  Also  joining  us  is  Councillor  Patty  Nolan.  We  do  have,  participating  in  a 
remote  manner,  Councillor  Zondervan,  and  I  will  read  the  regulations  as  pertains  to  remote 
participation.  The  city  manager  has  authorized  the  use  of  remote  participation  at  meetings  of  the 
city's  public  bodies  and  transmitted  to  the  Council  on  May  13,  2012.  The  Open  Meeting  Law 
regulations, which were revised by the Attorney General on October 6, 2017, it is 940 CMR 29.10 to 
be used as the guidelines for the city's use of remote participation. The Chair recognizes the absence 
of the person that is not at the meeting also announced that there is a quorum present which there is, 
the chair also will announce that there will be a member that is not meeting and will be participating 
remotely that member that is not present is Councillor Zondervan. Who will be participating in the 
meeting  remotely  and  is  in  attendance  by  way  of  teleconferencing.  This  information  must  be 
recorded in the minutes, the chair request that the absent Councillor to state for the record that the 
proceedings  are  clearly  audible  to  him.  And  so  I  will  ask  Councillor  Zondervan:  are  we  audible 
clearly to you? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank  you.  The  chair  will  announce  that  the  Councillor  Zondervan  is  audible  to  the  meeting  and 
most of the city council and to the public. At which point the chair will announce that all  votes that 
will  be  taken  this  evening  will  be  done  by  roll  call  vote.  The  call  is  as  follows  the  government 
operations rules and claims committee will meet to continue discussion on extending the contract the 
city manager Louie A. DePasquale beyond January 2020.  

City of Cambridge 

Page 1 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Good evening. I want to thank everyone for coming this evening to the meeting of the government 
ops, rules and claims Committee. The call the meeting is as follows: that the government operations, 
rules  and  claims  committee  will  meet  to  continue  discussion  on  extending  the  contract  of  city 
manager  Louie  A.  DePasquale  beyond  January  2020.  I  want  to  note  that  as  the  city  continues  to 
grapple with the COVID-19 outbreak, we are modifying how we do many things, in the hopes that 
we can minimize the risk of the exposure to those present. We are not holding this committee in the 
typical roundtable setup, instead having Councillors sit at their regular desks... sitting at the regular 
desk as far a part as possible. So if you folks that are sitting on this side of the room want to make 
more room between one another as we have been asked to do, please do so you will see that on this 
side of the room we were able to manage that. We are also providing public comment at the top of 
the meeting. And I strongly... First I want to thank all of you that have come to participate in public 
comment. But as we close or as you have given your testimony, I'm going to strongly urge those of 
you  that  have  come to  give  public  comment,  please  feel  comfortable to  leave  after  you  made  that, 
made  your  public  comment  or  left  your  minutes,  your  notes  so  that  you  know  that  this  meeting  is 
being televised and being recorded it is also being privately, being recorded by other devices through 
the  media  and  other  individuals.  So  please  be aware  of  that.  Everyone  will have  an  opportunity  to 
view  this  meeting  online.  It's  live  streaming  or  at  a  later  time.  Additionally,  with  every  council 
meeting and committee hearing, people are welcome to submit their public comments via email, and 
they  will  be  a  part  and  that  will  be  made  part  of  the  record.  I'm  also  urging  my  colleagues  on  the 
committee to keep the remarks brief and to the point. If you wish to ask numerous questions or make 
a note are numerous level of appoints I would ask that you state so that they will be on the record, but 
to consider having those questions answered in writing at the next meeting. I think it's best until we 
get  a  clearer  grip  on  the  virus  to  keep  our  meetings  brief  and  to  the  point  as  we  can  and  that  is 
certainly my intention this evening. Again, I want to note that my colleague Councillor Zondervan is 
participating remotely by phone this evening. So having said that, I am going to open the floor for 
public comment. I think we have a sign in sheet which our Clerk will get, the time allotted to each 
individual  is  three  minutes  please  give  your  name  and  address  for  the  record.  Make  all  your 
comments  through  the  chair  after  which  you  are  free  and/or  encouraged  to  leave  so  that  we  are 
always keeping your health and safety in mind. So with that when the clerk brings the signup sheet 
forward. We will then start with public comment. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Okay, that first person is signed up to speak is Elaine Thorne followed by Ruth Ryan Allen. 
 
Elaine Thorne   
Hello, I'm Elaine Thorne. I'm at 40 Hay street in Cambridge. I'm here to talk about being in support 
of the current city manager, Louie DePasquale. I have worked with Louie for the past 30 years, in 
different capacities here in the city, most currently with the Affordable Housing Trust. And I  think 
that he's doing a great job. He's an open policy door. I've worked to see that this city has supplied 
affordable housing, much more so than any place I know. And we continue to try to do better all the 
time. I also worked with Louie during one of the more trying times in Cambridge during the large 
fire that we had. Louie did everything possible to make that transition for people who are affected by 
a fire as seamless as possible and worked diligently at, with other city departments to make all of that 
happen. He has an open door policy, we have maintained the bond rating. And I just feel like this is 
the right person for the job currently. And I hope that you all will support it. Thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   

City of Cambridge 

Page 2 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

Thank you for your testimony. Ruth Ryan Allen, followed by Susan Ruff, after that Mike Nicoloro. 
 
Ruth Ryan Allen   
Thank  you.  I'm  here  in  support  of  extension  of  Mr.  DePasquale  contract.  My  name  is  Ruth  Ryan 
Allen. I Live on 48 Fenno Street. I've been a member of the planning and focus group for the new 
inclusionary park being developed and built by the Danehy park space. I'm also on the board of the 
Cambridge C-PAC, the special education Parent Advisory Committee. This park is so important to 
our  city,  the  children,  the  families,  with  all  abilities,  and  I  was  never  so  proud  to  be  invited  as  a 
member of the group. Our city manager Louie decided to put this idea into a reality for our families. 
There  is  such a  need  for parks  where both children  with  different abilities, as  well as  parents  with 
different abilities can go and just enjoy a day in the park. Most of the time these children have to wait 
for one of the specialized swings to become available in order to even be a part of the experience. 
Parents  who  had,  might  have  physical  disability  have  to  stand  there  and  watch  their  children  play. 
But this is going to change Mr. DePasquale saw a need in our city. He heard our families who are 
quiet  and  at  times,  they  don't  make  much  noise.  He  has  the  pulse  on  the  heart  of  the  city.  He  put 
together  a  team  of  parents  whose  children  range  in  abilities,  outside  caregivers,  city  staff, 
inclusionary specialists, art council members who can incorporate artists who them themselves have 
different abilities. And an architectural firm who has an excellent experience with such projects. The 
outreach groups that were formed were coordinated and open to all ideas. He was beyond sensitive to 
all groups and open the process to all of the neighbors in Cambridge. He gave us his word that this 
would  be  done,  and  it  will  be  done.  Now  Mr.  DePasquale  managed  to  get  the  funding,  responded 
back  to  the  group  putting  his  top  aides  in  the  mix.  Many  other  department  heads  followed  him 
because he is a man to be followed. This is a united effort and it was led by him. The most vulnerable 
in  our  city  are  sometimes  drowned  out  by  our  big  plans.  But  Mr.  DePasquale  ensures  all  will  be 
heard.  I  am  eternally  grateful  to  have  such  a  manager  in  our  city.  This  park  will  be  a  reality  very 
soon, the children and adults will find refuge in our turbulent times due to being able to access such a 
facility. This is due to a great project, a great plan and a great leader. And if we lose him, we'll be... 
Cambridge will be much less. So I urge you to follow the extension on this. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank  you  so  much  for  your  commentary.  The  next  person  is  Susan  Ruff.  Followed  by  Mike 
Nicoloro, followed by Scott Slater. 
 
Susan Ruff   
Hello, Susan Ralph. I live at 80 Fawcett Street. I've known Louie for 20 plus years, but I'm also the 
Director of Cambridge youth soccer. So I've been I'm working with him in his role as city manager. 
And I fully support extending his contract for another two years. Louie has a passion for this city. 
And it's been great working with him on various youth programs that our city provides. We sit down 
sometimes over complicated issues, I have to say he always has great respect for everybody sitting at 
that table, and invites all points of views and then we try to work out a good solution for people. And 
he understands youth programs, not just youth soccer, and we really appreciate that. In addition, his 
dedication to affordable housing certainly helps many of our soccer families. So thank you for that. 
Thanks for your time. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
And thank you for your testimony. Mike Nicoloro, followed by Scott Slater and then James Teague. 
 
Mike Nicoloro   

City of Cambridge 

Page 3 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

Good  evening.  My  name  is  Mike  Nicoloro,  I'm  a  lifelong  resident  of  East  Cambridge  156  Spring 
Street, and I am in favor of extending city manager's contract beyond 2021. I've had the privilege of 
knowing Louie for pretty much my entire life he grew up few houses down from where I lived on 
Thorndike he was on seventh. I also had an opportunity to actually work with him briefly when he 
was  the  budget  director  and  I  was  with  the  city,  I  worked  for  the  water  department.  And  both 
professionally and on a personal basis, I found Mr. DePasquale to be fair, passionate in his beliefs, 
collaborative, honest and true to his words. Beyond that he loves Cambridge and cares deeply about 
its future. He is a smart man but he's very humble. If you ever have been with him in a meeting or 
just  in  a  general  conversation,  he's  engaged  in  an  easy  to  speak  with.  He  has  no  ego.  Once  again, 
humble. He is a good communicator. From budget director to city manager, he has had involvement 
in maintaining triple A bond rating, which helps the city fund many programs that other cities and 
towns  envy.  Ride  through  Cambridge,  6.2  square  miles.  We  are  building  new  schools.  We  have  a 
fantastic  school  system  with  programs  for  helping our  children learn  regardless  of  what challenges 
they may have. They go the extra distance. I know and I have a grandson that's in that school system. 
We have a state of the art water purification plant in fresh pond, not to mention a wild and natural 
habitat  adjacent  to  it.  Having  a  water  plant  stabilizes  our  water  rates.  We  have  world-class  public 
safety; firemen, police, the fire department ISO Class One, which keeps insurance rates down. Why? 
Because in part a fire water infrastructure is superior. Again, Public Works plays a very defining role 
in  that.  Just  right  around  the  street  and  look  at  the  different  colored  hydrants.  All  of  those  have  a 
significance  in  the  meaning.  Our  Public  Works  serves,  you  know  provides  various  services  to  go 
along with low property taxes when compared to surrounding cities and towns. In summary, the city 
manager  has  to  balance  two  major  areas:  fiscal  stability,  environmental  quality  of  life,  diversity,  a 
number of things, but it's always the money and then the soft side of the business, which I consider to 
be the real thing that hits the hits the ground. I do believe Mr. DePasquale has done a spectacular job 
in  maintaining  a  healthy  balance  with  both  and  would  hope  that  he  can  continue  to  serve  the  city 
beyond 2021. And I'm sure he has a lot of sleepless nights thinking about when he's balancing these 
things, because everybody has to compromise. But at the end, we have a wonderful city, and I want 
to keep it that way. And I think if we have Mr. DePasquale  in place, we have a good shot at that to 
introduce some stability in the world right now with a lot of uncertainty. Thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
And  thank  you  for  your  testimony.  We  now  have  Scott  Slater,  followed  by  James  Teague,  after 
which we have our former state representative and city councilor, Saundra Graham. Mr. Slater. 
 
Scott Slater   
Thank you. Hi, I live at number 10 Bigelow Street. So right around the corner. And I've known Louie 
for  about  25  years  in  many  different  capacities.  One  thing that  really  doesn't  get  talked  about very 
much is how wonderful the City of Cambridge is, especially in the last five years or so, at responding 
to little needs of its citizens, such as having a motorcycle that's been chained to a pole outside of your 
house for a month or having some handicap placards put on a handicap pole in front of your house 
that bicycles were always locked on, or having street life fixed, etc, etc, all the little things that are 
very important to the citizens of Cambridge, to make just our day to day life easier and Louie and the 
people  that  work  in  the  city  manager's  office  have  always  been  incredibly  responsive.  It's...  It's  so 
impressive  friends  of mine  who  were  visiting  me  from  out  of  town  can  never  believe  how  quickly 
things are addressed when you make that call. As a resident, I've lived on Bigelow Street for 30 years 
next month. And most of my neighbors are older than even me, and are on fixed incomes of some 
sort,  have  lived  in  their  houses  for  30  or  40  years,  aren't  especially  wealthy,  want  to  stay  in  their 
homes. And I... one thing that I really think is a wonderful thing that City of Cambridge has done is 
to allow the middle class to stay in Cambridge by keeping property taxes low. And I think Louie has 

City of Cambridge 

Page 4 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

had  a  great  deal  to  do  with  that.  You  don't  see  when  people  are  running  for  city  council  in  their 
campaign literature: “Oh, one of my goals is to preserve the middle class in Cambridge.” I'm afraid 
you  just  don't  hear  that  very  often  from  city  councillors.  Perhaps  it  is  one  of  their  goals  but  it's  a 
pretty big goal because a lot of people like myself are keeping the city affordable. My... I do have a 
tenant in my house who's a student. And we have basically never raised our rent since he moved in. 
We  have  always  kept  it  low  and  have  always  had  students  living  there  since  we've  lived  there. 
Many... some of my neighbors on Bigelow Street still rent rooms, because under rent control, they 
lived  in  rooming  houses  but  they  decided  even  after  they  did  not  have  to  do  that  anymore,  they 
continue to rent rooms and those rooms are like with my tenants rent well below market. And so it's 
the idea of having our taxes go up substantially would be kind of devastated. I collect Social Security 
now,  despite  the  fact  that  I  still  work  and  for  the  residents  of  so  many  parts  of  Cambridge  all  the 
people who live in their parents houses or have taken them over the two and three families, etc, etc. It 
really helps us... 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Mr Slater your time has expired.  
 
Scott Slater   
Okay, thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
If  anybody  who  has  their  comments  in  writing,  please  leave  them  in  the  basket.  And  they  will  be 
made a part of the record for tonight's meeting. James Teague, followed by Saundra Graham. 
 
James Teague   
Hi, so I'm James Teague. Thank you for giving me this opportunity to speak. My wife and two sons 
live at 107 Fairweather Street here in Cambridge. I'm here to talk in support of the city negotiating in 
good faith to extend Louie's contract. Here's a couple of brief reasons why we want to support him 
here. I was recently at the Tobin School community meeting and saw the city manager gathering all 
the  different  constituents  stakeholders  and  providers  to  that  project  together  to  go  over  the  plans, 
solicit concerns, get suggestions. My wife and I truly appreciate living in a community that values 
inclusion  and  values,  diversity  of  different  points  of  view.  And  it  was  wonderful  to  see  our  city 
manager making that effort to solicit those points of view. It is not easy. I know it's not easy to have 
to  navigate  the  different  points  of  view  the  debate  between  the  soccer  families  and  the  baseball 
coaches is enough to keep anybody away from that. I truly appreciate that he makes that effort. You 
all know he's worked for the city for a long time. That kind of experience and institutional knowledge 
brings to this position, a tremendous benefit to this city. Earlier, someone mentioned the fire in East 
Cambridge. And I think that that experience and institutional knowledge was tremendous in getting 
the resources to those families providing the homes, the clothing, the food for those families in need. 
And I appreciate that we've got a city manager who has that kind of experience. We've got a triple A 
rating, it  is  not easy  to  sustain  that. We  live  in  really  strange  times.  And  I'm  not  talking  about  the 
corona virus. I'm talking about a federal government that is retaliatory against cities, sanctuary cities 
such as ours. And I appreciate that we've got a city manager who has the skill and the knowledge and 
the ability and the experience to navigate those financial challenges. There's community needs, and 
just  and the  political  challenges that  we're facing, and  so  I  am  supportive  and  I  encourage  the city 
negotiate in good faith to extend his contract. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   

City of Cambridge 

Page 5 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

Thank  you.  Thank  you  for  your  testimony.  Saundra  Graham.  Absolutely.  Thank  you.  Richard 
Vendetti followed by David Altschuler. 
 
Richard Vendetti   
Good evening councillors. I'm here  to, to support the extension. And hopefully it's double the time 
that  you  have  an  extension.  I've  known  Louie  for  probably  55  years  roughly.  I  live  at  24  Winter 
Street in East Cambridge. To have a gentleman like Louie get involved with this city. And the love 
he has for the city, the love he has for children and sports and how we solve [sic], you can't get a 
better person in life. And to have him run the city to be one of the top notch cities in the country with 
the triple A bond rating, and he keeps it up year after year after year. So I hope you will extend this 
here for a long time. I know everybody in this room and in the city you know somewhat appreciate 
would appreciate it for sure. Thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you for your testimony. David Altschuler, followed by Douglas Altschuler, followed by Jim 
Stockard. 
 
David Altschuler   
My name is David Altschuler. I want to start by thanking all of you for your service to the city into 
making it the great place that I've been proud to live in for a little over 20 years now. Also thank you 
for, you know, keeping things going in these scary times, having open government and being able to 
have these hearings and wherever we go from here, these kinds of you know, democracy in action is 
just  one  of  those  important  things.  And  one  of  the,  you  know,  heroes  of  mine  and  this  great  local 
setting is Louie DePasquale. And so I'm here to talk in favor of his extension. I come with a couple 
of  different  hats  on.  One  is  from  sort  of  business  side,  and  then  also  from  the  arts.  There  was  a 
business I'm involved with a couple different restaurants and both the restaurant industry called Par 
Le and also here for a friend associate of mine Tom Brush who operates Philippe's in the middle of 
Harvard Square. And what Tom, who's not feeling well right now asked me to convey to all of you is 
that even though  he  had a  couple  of  hiccups  and trying  to  figure  out a  couple  of  regulatory things 
here with the city, where he didn't have the easiest time, he didn't have it, things didn't go the way he 
wanted them to go – Louie was somebody who dealt with him straightforwardly. And with candor, 
and direct and didn't make it easy. He didn't, didn't get anything, but he had to do what he had to do. 
But just by being straightforward and being transparent and acting with candor, to us, it was involved 
with significant costs financially to Tom, that was really important to him.  
 
David Altschuler   
And when you think about what goes on at Harvard Square, and then another hat, I've been involved 
with theater group that was able to bring moon brought able to bring Rocky Horror Picture show to 
Harvard  Square  this  last  fall.  I  was  involved  in  trying  to  revitalize  Kendall  Square  with  arts 
performances. And so we are, again from be at the restaurant side or from the art side, pure nonprofit, 
public  charity,  supported  by  many  people  here  in  Cambridge,  is  we're  trying  to  revitalize  life  in 
Harvard Square and Kendall Square. And in this time where we have all these big corporations and 
all these big companies having little independent activities, arts groups, or be independent restaurants 
or just small businesses, it's hard. And Louie, again, while maintaining a fair and level playing field 
and  trying  to  make  it  all  work  has  been  inviting  in  the  economic  development  group  and  the  Arts 
Cambridge  group,  which again, I  thank  you  all  for  the  support  of those  endeavors,  because  you've 
been  behind  so  much  of  that.  But  Louie  is  somebody  who  I  want  to  just  leave  with  one  word  for 
Louie,  which  is  I  think  he  is  one  of  the  primary  catalysts  for  revitalization.  He  is  someone  who  is 
revitalizing  these...  these  two  squares  Harvard  Square  and  Kendall  Square.  And  so  when  I  look 

City of Cambridge 

Page 6 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

forward from where we are today in the scary times, and think about what trait do I most want to see 
the leaders of our Financial Services or administrative bureaucracy. I mean that in a positive sense, is 
I want somebody like Louie, he doesn't cut corners. He doesn't do favors. What he does is just try to 
make it straightforward and deal with things with candor. Even now back to speaking for Tom, even 
when things don't work out, knowing that you've got a... 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you for your testimony you have reach for three minutes. If you have your remarks in writing, 
please leave them in the baskets. Thank you for your testimony. Douglas Altschuler followed by Jim 
Stockard, and then Rob Belkner. 
 
Douglas Altschuler   
Hello, thank you just heard support for Louie DePasquale for keeping the position and city manager. 
I can't really speak to his work as city manager, but I actually was in the baseball Little League for 
West Cambridge. And he was the commissioner of that and, you know, although I was pretty young, 
I just remember the whole program ran really well. And I remember my mother was a coach and I 
remember when I left for a year, and I didn't come back, he spent extra time to help me figure out 
which  team  I  needed  to  go  to.  And  considering  that  he  has  such  an  important  job  aside  from  this 
work as a commissioner for Little League Baseball group, I think it's just shows his character how 
he's willing to spend so much time to help all these different children have a really great experience 
together. And yeah, so specifically, from my experience, I think he proves that he's willing to put in 
as  much  time  as  he  has  plus  more  to  not  only  help  in  his  specific  job,  but  then  just  be  part  of  the 
community all together. And yeah, so thank you for that. And one little thing is like, whatever like he 
I don't think he was even paid for that position as Commissioner, but definitely like considering how 
much work he put in he should have been. Anyway, yeah, but thank you so much. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
And thank you for your testimony. Jim Stockard file by Rob Belkner. Followed by Kevin Donaher. 
 
Jim Stockard   
Hello, my name is Jim Stockard, I live at 141 Oxford Street. I want to acknowledge that I first met 
Louie as the mortal enemy. He was a coach for the East Cambridge All Star Little League team and 
my son played for the North Cambridge team. So I was started off by being pretty mad at Louie. But 
it's actually not a bad way to get to know somebody to tell you the truth. Because as I watched Louie 
coach, I began to observe some things about him. Every kid on that team, the best kid, and the least 
good kid, got the same kind of attention from Louie. He didn't... there was no status in Louie. He was 
just a huge supporter of kids. And on top of that, he was really smart. They played really well and 
they won most of their games and then he went to West Cambridge to run – he still wasn't helping us 
out in North Cambridge – so I needed to overcome that as I've gotten to know Louie. However, on a 
professional level, he has done a remarkable job for this city. It is inconceivable that you would find 
a  city  manager  who  knew  our  city  better.  I  doubt  there's  a  street  in  the  city,  he  hasn't  walked  and 
talked  to  families  on  the  streets.  It's  inconceivable  that  you  would  find  someone  who  cared  more 
about this city. It's inconceivable that there's somebody with a greater level of integrity than Louie 
has.  And  people  have  already  mentioned  the  bond  rating  which  allows  us  to  do  so  many  things 
because  of  our  ability  to  raise  money.  And  finally,  as  a  member  of  the  Affordable  Housing  Trust 
Fund, Louie has been a huge supporter of that fund, giving us more money and inspiring our staff 
and our commissioners to think creatively about how we can do the  very difficult task of providing 
more affordable housing for our citizens. So I hope seriously that you will renegotiate with Louie and 
find a way for him to extend his service to the city. Thanks 

City of Cambridge 

Page 7 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
And thank you for your testimony. Rob Belkner followed by Kevin Donaher. 
 
Rob Belkner   
Thank you very much for this opportunity. I'm here in support of the West Cambridge Little League 
Orioles, which I am one of the assistant coaches because if Louie's not renewed, he's going to be at 
the field even more than he already is. And we beat him last year. I don't think we could beat him this 
year if he's there anymore, which would be hard for him to do because he is there so much. I, you 
know, I haven't been to a lot of city manager hearings before, but actually, I've never been to any but 
to hear Louie discuss in the way that he is by all these folks here. I think that's probably unique for a 
city for a city manager position. This city is wonderful. I was born here. Moved back here 14 years 
ago  to  raise  my  family  here.  My  wife and  I  wanted  to  grow up  in  a city that  is  –  is  unique  and is 
inclusive, and is wonderful. Unique is a word I think that people use a lot. And I think in in our city's 
case,  it  really  sticks.  I  think  everybody  here especially  you folks  here,  know  that that's  why  you're 
here  doing  what  you  do.  Thank  you  for  doing  what  you  do.  Our  various  universities  or  our  social 
policies, diverse neighborhoods, diverse neighbors, community programs. It's a special place and to 
manage a special place like this, you need a special person. And you need somebody who knows the 
city, who brings the city home with them brings the city to the baseball field with him, brings the city 
back to work with them. We all know Louie does that. Louie loves the people, the culture. Louie is a 
gentleman  to  all  whether you're  with himor  not or negotiating.  He's  a  mentor  to  many.  I've  seen  it 
firsthand. And it's a beautiful thing to watch. He's financially solid. He's a financial, he understands 
financial management. I think we all pretty much understand that. 
 
Rob Belkner   
Louie knows the city, the people, the businesses, the schools, the struggle.  Louie is the city. And we 
have  a  great  opportunity  to  continue  this,  this  wonderful  relationship  with  a  man  who  loves  and 
knows what he does as well as anybody else. I would like to say one thing about fiscal responsibility 
and  sustainable  growth.  I  think  that,  you  know,  Louie  understands  how  to  move  this  city  forward 
without  sacrificing  its  greatest  resources  which  is  its  citizens.  And  as  a  middle  class  citizen  who 
wants to stay here for as long as possible and continue to raise my family, and my family's family, I 
think Louis gives us a great opportunity for that. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you for your testimony. Again if it's in writing please leave it in the basket. Kevin Donaher 
her after which city councillor Saundra Graham. 
 
Kevin Donaher   
Hi, my name is Kevin Donaher and I live at 225 Chestnut Street. I'm here to respectfully ask that you 
do not renew the contract of city manager Louie DePasquale.  I first learned about Louie from my 
work on municipal broadband where despite the majority of the council claiming to support it, it has 
been blocked from progressing even to a feasibility study entirely due to the ideological beliefs of a 
single unelected official. Louie believes that Cambridge should be run like a business, tax cuts year 
after year for the wealthy bosses, austerity for the regular people who live and work here. And like 
every  other  Corporation,  Louie  has  been  carrying  on  the  Healy  administration's  record  of 
discrimination.  Councillor  Simmons  recently  remarked,  I'm  tired  of  hearing  the  same  type  of 
complaints  from  the  same  departments  coming  from  city  employees  year  after  year,  and  also  that 
women feel trapped in a toxic environment. The city council has the power to stop Louie and simply 
chooses  not  to.  I  don't  recall  any  candidate  running  for  city  council  on  a  platform  of  tax  cuts, 

City of Cambridge 

Page 8 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

austerity and discrimination. But that's what we got by continuing the Healy administration. What's 
the  point  of  holding  elections  if  all  the  real  power  in  the  city  is  going  to  be  held  by  the  same 
unelected authority since 1981. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you for your testimony. Councillor Saundra Graham followed by Susan Freitas and then city 
councillor and former mayor Kenneth Reeves. 
 
Saundra Graham   
Good evening, everyone. Nice to be here. been away for a long time. But it's nice to be here tonight. 
I'm here in really support of Louie. I have been working with Louie over the past couple of years. He 
has been accessible. As a city councilor, one thing you really love is a person that returns your phone 
calls. And you don't have to call him three or four times in order to get him on the telephone. I think 
he's  doing  a  wonderful  job.  I  think  he  has  provided  the  quality  of  life  that  we  look  forward  to  in 
Cambridge,  in  every  neighborhood,  not  just  in  one  neighborhood  but  in  every  neighborhood.  The 
quality  of  the  parks  are  always  kept  up  so  that  the  children  have  places  to  play  without  drugs 
paraphernalia  all  over  the  place.  The  schools  are  getting  better.  We  helped  design  the  schools,  we 
design the king school. We are grateful that there are-- there are buildings in those schools. I think 
the city has been run very well. I think the city has cash reserves that I would like to get my hands 
on. But we have it in case of emergency. Our bond rating is very high, and it continues to be high. 
And that's because you have a city manager that is fiscally responsible for the city. So I'm hoping that 
you look at his contract and that you say to yourself that this is a man that is qualified to continue to 
run the city. You know, when I was in the city council, we had a city-- we had a nationwide search 
for a city manager. And we interviewed probably about six or seven people who came from across 
the country.  
 
Saundra Graham   
And as we interviewed them, we really found out that they didn't understand Cambridge. That they 
didn't  know  Cambridge  at  all.  And  that  some  of  their  responses  to  questions  were  not  what  we 
wanted.  And  so  we  went  through  that  for  about  four  or  five  months  and  decided  that,  hey,  we're 
going  to  get  somebody  that  knows  Cambridge,  that  has  been  in  Cambridge,  that  understands 
Cambridge. And so we hired Jim Sullivan. I just want to say that sometimes it's best to keep who you 
have if they are qualified and can keep the job, rather than go abroad, and try to find somebody who 
does not know our city. Thank you.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
And  thank  you  for  your  testimony.  Susan  Freitas,  followed  by  city  council  and  former  mayor 
Kenneth Reeves, followed by Timothy Flaherty. 
 
Susan Freitas   
Hi, my name is Susan Freitas. I have a home at 140 Thorndike Street, Cambridge, East Cambridge 
that is. I have a small business in East Cambridge. I've known Louie DePasquale for over 50 years. 
And I don't know anybody better for this job. He is the most dedicated person I know. He was born 
and raised in Cambridge. We all hung around together back in the days and he is a great mentor. He 
is for the city. I think he eats, sleeps, and drinks it. And Cambridge is his home. It'll always be his 
home. And he is for the people of Cambridge. And I think he's the best person for this job. Thank 
you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   

City of Cambridge 

Page 9 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

Thank you for your testimony. Former city councillor, former mayor Kenneth Reeves, followed by 
Timothy Flaherty, followed by Margaret Drury, former city clerk. 
 
Kenneth Reeves   
Good evening, and Good to see you all. I came to speak in support of the contract extension for the 
current  city  manager  Louie  DePasquale.  I  find  it  very  heartening  that  the  fact  of  baseball  and  the 
many  metaphors  from  baseball that  describe Louie  because  while  I've  known  him  over  40  years,  I 
think I met his real essence in the midst of Little League baseball and to see his utter devotion to the 
children  of  Cambridge,  particularly  those  in  his  church  and  his  support  and  nurturing  of  them.  It 
makes you understand that he does understand the core of the city and the true qualifications for city 
manager of Cambridge is the love of Cambridge. And he has that in spades. I assure you that but he 
also-- I met him in another context when – you all won't believe this but it was sometime when they 
didn’t elect the mayor on time – and as the senior member of the Council, I was in that position often 
longer  than a month.  And  I  would  have  to  represent  that  office  in  one  time  interviewing  for a city 
position that had a  lot to do with children and, and we had a very good and diverse pool. And the 
oddest thing is that there were people in the pool who were clearly unqualified, but were somehow in 
the  pool  due  to  connections  they  had  with  some  of  us,  and  in  the  pool  was  an  African  American 
woman who was the exceptional candidate but was having a hard time in this pool. But luckily Louie 
knew her and her son from little league and for one of the few times in Cambridge during my service, 
I was in a battle with somebody who I knew what-- knew what war this was and what we must do. 
Now unfortunately, suddenly we've got a mayor and I was bounced out of that and they did not hire 
that woman. But it was the context that I remember back to so richly that I felt Louie was an ally and 
understanding that in this circle, something that shouldn't happen won't happen. It will happen unless 
we're vigilant. It happened anyway. So yet we are not saved in that story.  I really think though, we 
need Louie. If you want new management, begin now to look around the country. But as former rep, 
former Councillor Graham said, when I first sat in this circle, I believe our city manager, the new one 
would be from Santa Monica or some other hip city. By the time I left here, I fully realized that the 
love of Cambridge is the only qualification and that more than likely, it's got to be somebody who 
understands how complex and peculiar. Thank you. I absolutely appreciate. I strongly support Louie. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank  you.  Okay,  Tim  Flaherty,  followed  by  our  former  city  clerk  Margaret  Drury,  followed  by 
Patrick Barrett. 
 
Tim Flaherty   
Good afternoon. My name is Timothy Flaherty. I'm an attorney. I live at 103 Fresh  Pond Park with 
my  wife,  Lisa  and  my  son,  Timothy.  And  as  I  was  sitting  here  thinking  about,  and  listening  to 
everyone  else,  I  realized  my  son  Timothy  is  the  –  represents  the  fifth  generation  of  my  family  in 
Cambridge.  And  it's  very  hard  to  believe  that  my  family's  lived  in  Cambridge  for  that  long.  It's 
equally as difficult for me to believe that I didn't know Louie DePasquale. I knew of him but I didn't 
know  him.  I  didn't  play  baseball  for  him.  I  never  interacted  with  him.  Until  recently,  in  the  last 
couple  of  years,  professionally,  I  interacted  with  him.  And  when  I  did,  I  found  out  exactly  how 
talented he is, how bright he is, how encyclopedic his knowledge is, his historical and institutional 
background,  the  City  of  Cambridge  is  unparalleled.  He  knows  every  department,  every  street,  he 
knows  everything  there  is,  every  facet  of  city  government.  And  when  I  think  of  cities,  I  think  of 
people. That's really what it is. And I think of how Louie interacts with the families and the kids and 
my own son at the Tobin fields with little league baseball. And it's easy to forget, I think sometimes 
we live in a world class city, this is the Paris of America. It's easy to forget, because we're all used to 
Harvard and  MIT and  you  know,  the culture and--  and just the  incredible  resources  in  Cambridge. 

City of Cambridge 

Page 10 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

But I think it's also easy to forget that none of this happens by accident without a strong city manager 
as somebody who runs the city the way Louie does, and he does it with a mind of Cambridge is about 
people. And he does everything he can to support how people live in the city, how families live in the 
city. And it's easy to forget that, and it's I think of other city managers because I have through my 
practice and opportunity to interact with municipal officials all across Massachusetts. And as I think 
of Louie, and I'm referring to the city manager of Cambridge by his first name, Louie, that in itself is 
unique.  When  I  think  of  how  more  talented  and  collaborative  and  inclusive  and  thoughtful  and 
dignified Mr. DePasquale is, as compared to all of the others that I deal with on a daily basis across 
Massachusetts, it's easy to forget how good we have it. He's outstanding. And I would ask you all to 
really, really consider how lucky we are to have him and to renew his contract, because the City of 
Cambridge is about people who live here, and he does an extraordinary job, making sure that all of 
our lives are better. So I want to thank him for his service. And thank you for your time. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank  you  for  your  testimony.  Margaret  Drury,  former  city  clerk,  followed  by  Patrick  Barrett, 
followed by Lee Ferris. 
 
Margaret Drury   
Good evening, Margaret Drury, 1 Dudley Court Cambridge, Massachusetts.  I support the extension 
of city manager DePasquale's contract. During his tenure, Cambridge has been a very well managed 
and  innovative  city.  The  hallmarks  of  a  successful  municipality  are  the  development  and 
maintenance of a professional and competent administrative staff and workforce and the allocation of 
city resources to manage that work in accordance with the priorities set by the majority vote of the 
legislative  body.  Our  department  heads  are  professional  and  knowledgeable  in  their  fields  and  our 
city  manager  is  adept  at  managing  the  city's  resources  in  accordance  with  the  priorities  of  the  city 
council a difficult tasks in the best of times, due to the fact that while the constituencies of the nine 
constituencies of the nine members of the legislative body overlap, they are by no means identical. 
Mr. DePasquale – Louie – does not seek to make policy for the city, which is the job of the Council. 
But  when  the  council  has  voted  to  adopt  a  particular  policy,  he  works  very  hard  to  implement  the 
policy. If I were more cognizant with baseball statistics, I would give him a very high batting score 
for the level of his achievement of this goal. Louie’s management both fiscal and administrative has 
enabled the city council to provide resources for the many services and programs that benefit all of 
our  residents.  Over  the  last  30  years  that  I  worked  for  the  City  of  Cambridge,  beginning  at  the 
Cambridge  Rent  Control  Board,  I  have  had  the  opportunity  to  observe  Louie  strong  support  for 
affordable  housing.  And  as  the  city  manager,  he  has  overseen  a  dramatic  increase  in  the  city's 
funding  for  affordable  housing.  He's  also  supported  increased  funding  for  the  Cambridge  public 
schools,  including  the  building  and  renovation  of  our  aging  schools.  He  has  supported  the  city's 
increased focus on sustainability, and he has provided support for ongoing and new human services 
that are so essential to the most vulnerable members of our community. The many accomplishments 
achieved  during  his  tenure  are  truly  impressive,  and  represent  the  city  manager's  successful 
management and allocation of resources for an extraordinary array of city council priorities that have 
benefited Cambridge. And last but not least, like everyone before me, I have to mention Louie's deep 
love  for  and  knowledge  of  the  City  of  Cambridge,  and  humanity's  desire  to  use  the  resources  to 
benefit the entire community. Thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you very much. Patrick Barrett, followed by Lee Ferris, followed by Heather Hoffman. 
 
Patrick Barrett   

City of Cambridge 

Page 11 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

Thank  you,  Councillor  Simmons.    My  name  is  Patrick  Barrett.  I'm  here  to  say  a  couple  of  things. 
One,  going  through  this  political  exercise  of  jockeying  to  figure  out  whether  or  not  we're  gonna 
extend the city manager's contract to me seems like a colossal waste of time. You should renew it. 
You should do it right now. You should let him get back to work and deal with the massive crisis that 
we're facing right now instead of going through this yet again – because I remember going through it 
with Rich Rossi and it was annoying then, it's annoying now. Spend the time figuring out – because 
Louie's not gonna be here forever – who is going to be manager after Louie. What kind of city we 
want after Louie – because Louie by himself is, you know, just the manager. There's a whole team of 
people behind him. A whole team of people that when he goes they go, and you need to think about 
how  the  city  is  structured  and  how  the  city  works.  I  didn't  want  to  come  up  here  because  quite 
frankly, I shouldn't be up here. None of us should be up here right now. The crisis that's currently out 
there is way worse than I think anyone here realizes. However, I would ask that the council renew 
Louie's contract, let him get back to work, spend the next year putting together what you guys want 
for  a  city  manager  for  the  city.  Because  I  swear  if  you  guys  spend  anything  time  going  over  the 
political nonsense that you guys went through with Rossi before, it makes you just look terrible. And 
we  don't  need  it  right  now,  we  really  don't.  And  it's  not  hysteria,  and  that's  not  theatrics.  It's  just 
reality. You're not -- you're going to renew his contract. So just do it. And then think about how you 
want the city departments to be run. The license commission sent out an email to all my businesses. 
It's reprehensible. That's a problem. Let's work on it. CDD, you know, they need work, lots of work, 
but  you're  not  going  to  solve  it  all  right  now.  So  resolve  yourselves  to  fix  these  problems 
incrementally, systematically, not to go through some nonsense about whether or not we're going to 
hire  Louie.    Louie  is  awesome.  I  like  him  a  lot.  You  should  hire  him.  And  then  think  about  what 
happens afterwards, but not -- don't do it now. Thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you for your testimony, Lee Ferris, followed by Heather Hoffman, followed by Reverend Ellis 
Washington. 
 
Lee Ferris   
Good evening councillors. And thanks for your attention to this matter. I'm Lee Farris, 269 Norfolk 
street,  and  I'm  speaking  today  for  the  Cambridge  Residents  Alliance.  Many  people  today  have 
mentioned the city manager's accomplishments. However, before the council decides on whether to 
extend  the  manager's  contract,  the  Residents  Alliance  asks  that  the  council  decide  on  a  process  to 
evaluate the manager. And I have to say I don't think I've seen a good process, or in most cases, any 
process for the council to evaluate the manager. So starting now, when you have a manager that a lot 
people  think  is  doing  something  good,  is  good  for  the  council  to  do.  Initially,  the  council  could 
evaluate  the  manager  using  the  most  recent  council  goals,  including  some  criteria  for  success,  and 
also  requiring  a  means  for  public  input.  Longer  term,  the  council  should  design  a  more 
comprehensive  evaluation  as  is  done  with  the  school  superintendent,  and  that  evaluation  should 
address  the  results  that  can  be  accomplished  and  a  wide  range  of  leadership  skills  that  should  be 
demonstrated.  For  that  to  work,  we  ask  that  the  council  adopt  after  getting  public  input  an 
organizational  vision  mission  goals  and  objectives  that  can  be  objectively  tracked  to  determine 
progress.  We  also  recommend  that  the  city  manager  complete  a  self-evaluation.  In  addition  to 
working on the initial evaluation of the manager and designing a comprehensive manager evaluation, 
we  asked  that  the  council  establish  a  process  and  timing  for  a  National  City  Manager  search  and 
hiring process. That process should include a national salary survey. At a recent public meeting of 
the  Cambridge  Residents  Alliance,  many  residents  expressed  dissatisfaction  with  the  lack  of 
evaluation  of  the  manager  by  the  Council,  and  expressed  concerns  about  specific  aspect  of  the 
manager’s  performance.  For  example,  residents  were  unhappy  that  there  were  a  number  of  issues 

City of Cambridge 

Page 12 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

where the manager had not responded to the council's repeated policy orders. And you heard about 
those  at  the  prior  meeting  of  this  committee.  Residents  also  expressed  dissatisfaction  with  the 
development  model  that  this  and  prior  managers  have  used,  which  includes  granting  permits  for 
substantial commercial development in order to generate tax revenue. So a comprehensive evaluation 
as the manager and planning on how to hire the next manager would benefit our city. And I hope that 
you will work on that as soon as possible. Thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
And thank you for your testimony. Heather Hoffman, followed by Reverend Ellis Washington. After 
which we have Mike Nakagawa. 
 
Heather Hoffman   
Hello, Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street. I want to start out by expressing my disappointment that 
we're having this meeting at all. We shouldn't be meeting. Patrick Barrett’s right, this is a crisis and 
we're  not taking  it  seriously.  That  being  said,  when  I  say  that  I  live in  the center  of the  ATM that 
makes that triple A bond rating possible. And what I see around me is families leaving because the 
overdevelopment in my neighborhood is making it unlivable. And we are doing nothing to increase 
the  supply  of  homes  –  not  people  warehouses  –  homes  in  this  city.  Why  are  values  going  up? 
Because  we  don't  have  more  homes;  we  have  more  and  more  and  more  people  working  here.  We 
build more and more and more commercial development. But we don't build homes. What we build 
is  the  functional  equivalent  of  extended  stay  motels,  places  with  six-month  leases.  If  you  ask  the 
developers of all these big apartment buildings, what they expect their annual turnover to be, every 
last one of them will say 50 to 100%. We are not getting neighbors. We're getting people who are 
passing  through  that  does  not  create  the  community  that  this  city  needs  to  remain  the  place  that  I 
personally want to live in for the rest of my life. The place -- what we are turning into is a place that 
my  husband  wants  to  leave.  That  my  neighbors  want  to  leave.  That  we  know  that  we  are  losing 
people. We've -- people have talked about the statistics of people of color leaving. We are not doing 
this right. 
 
Heather Hoffman   
And  I  believe  that  we  need  to  find  a  city  manager  who  looks  to  our  future,  who  looks  to  create 
community.  Not  someone  who  sees  his  job as  primarily  collecting  taxes.  Collecting  taxes  is  a fine 
thing. But if you have no vision for what to do with them, then you've missed a huge part of the job. 
Why  is  it  that  we  had  this  huge  problem  over  Eversource,  not  just  in  my  neighborhood,  but  in 
Cambridgeport as well? Because the city hasn't planned. And when in the Envision process they were 
asked about talking about energy, they were told “no, you may not.” Imagine where that must have 
come from. Because it didn't come from the vision of the consultant.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you for your testimony. 
 
Heather Hoffman   
Thank you.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
We  have  Reverend  Ellis  Washington,  there  are  three  other  people  that  are  signed  up.  If  you're 
interested in speaking on the record, there are index cards at the table, just fill them out, and the clerk 
will come pick them up. So there's anyone that speak wants to speak on the record, please fill out one 
of these index cards and the Clerk can pick it up past the Washington, 

City of Cambridge 

Page 13 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

 
Reverend Ellis Washington   
Thank  you  for  the  ability  to  address  you  on  this  issue  and  I  rise  to  support  the  extension  of  the 
contract for Mr. Louie DePasquale. I am Pastor Ellis Washington of the St. Paul AME Church, 37 
and  85  Bishop  Allen  drive.  And  although  I've  been  pastor  of  St.  Paul  now  going  into  my  seventh 
year,  I  realize  that is  relatively  short compared to some  of  the  persons  I've heard  speak,  who  have 
lived here all their life. But I will say that it is been a joy getting to know Mr. DePasquale, especially 
over  the  last  few  years,  I've  been  honored  to  serve  as  a  member  of  the  City  Manager's  Advisory 
Council. I've had a chance to get to know him, better watch him work, get a feel for his leadership for 
his  heart,  which  I  believe  is  truly  at  the  center  of  Cambridge.  He  loves  not  only  the  city,  and  as 
you've heard others say he knows the city, inside and out. But I also want to say  that he's someone 
that I trust as someone who has a heart in the right place for doing what is right for everyone, to the 
best of his ability, in the city. I trust him as it regards to issues of affordable housing and working 
towards those issues. And I trust him as someone who not only leads with humility, but is responsive 
to the needs of persons in the community. And so with that, I would just simply urge that we extend 
the contract of Mr. DePasquale. Thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you for your testimony. Mike Nakagawa followed by Dennis Benzan, then James Williamson. 
 
Mike Nakagawa   
Hello.  Mike  Nakagawa  51  Madison  Avenue.  I  just  like  to  start  by  saying  that  I  agree  with  what 
Heather  Hoffman  had  said  except  change the  neighborhood  to  Alewife, and  I've  lost  my  spouse  to 
cancer. So that part didn't apply either. On my personal comments on-- I think Louie has done well 
fiscally for the city. But it comes from an older time in the 70s or 80s, early 80s, when the city was 
struggling and getting businesses to come has been what has built the city to be as desirable as it is 
now. But I believe the times have changed and he's too conservative for the current conditions. The 
commercial growth has made much more demand for housing than we can keep up with, with all the 
jobs  we've  created.  And  there  are  no  signs  of  it  stopping.  I  think  we  could  do  more  by  looking  at 
what  getting  things  from  the  commercial  basis.  I  just  moved  in  started  this  week  at  Cambridge 
Crossing  as  one  of  the  first  commercial  tenants  there,  and  I'm  watching  all  the  foundations  go  out 
surrounding the building there. Louie has advertised every year how low our property taxes are just 
year after year, but then we don't have the money in the budget for more affordable housing projects 
or  just  or  support  for  low  income  housing.  We  can't  afford  more  traffic  patrol  officers  or  enough 
CDD  staff  to  handle  the  workload  that  they  have,  which  is  just  incredible.  As  part  of  the  climate 
resilience  zoning  Task  Force,  I  don't  see  enough  priority  for  our  climate  crisis.  I  don't  see  him  as 
pushing that widely. And citywide broadband has been on the table for a long time. If we renew his 
contract as I fully expect, I think we should make some goals and review them and start a process as 
the basis for what will come later. Maybe we can hire him as a consultant for part of the time so you 
can mentor the next city manager and take that energy but let someone grow into their role. We knew 
that the end of his contract would be coming actually multiple times, we have not made a succession 
plan except what appears to be fourth in the line of the Healy -- I don't know what you want to call it. 
But  I  would  like  to  see more diversity in the power  structure  of the  chief  officers  of  the  executive 
branches of our federal, state, and municipal levels and this is one place we could start. Thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
And thank you for your testimony. Dennis Benzan, followed by James Williamson. 
 
Dennis Benzan   

City of Cambridge 

Page 14 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

Good evening, Madam Chair, council members. My name is Dennis Benzan. I reside at 1 Pine Street 
in  Cambridge.  I  want  to  thank  all  the  speakers  that  came  before  me.  Rob  was  actually  my  son's 
coach, and my son got a chance to play in that game last year against Louie in a championship. So, 
you  know,  I  really  want  to  just  thank  everyone  for  all  the  great  comments  around  Louie.  I'm  here 
today to support renewing manager DePasquale’s contract. I came to know Louie first as a director of 
the Mayors summer youth employment program back in 1993 through 1996. It was the time when I 
fought to grow the program from about 350 youth workers to 550 youth workers. It was up to Louie 
as the city's finance leader to figure out how to fund it. And he did. He understood that our youth are 
partly shaped early by employment experiences. And so Louie did his best to find the money to grow 
the program. I later had the opportunity to work closely with Louie when I served as vice mayor and 
co  chair  of  the  ordinance  committee  and  Subcommittee  on  economic  development,  here  in  these 
chambers. During my tenure, as many of you know, I fought for affordable housing, support for the 
opioid  addiction,  the  arts  and  science,  technology,  education,  arts  and  mathematics  education.  In 
particular, for the utilization of the foundry building, as a steam workforce training site. Whether it 
was helping me understand the financial implications of new development or finding money to help 
save  expiring  use  buildings,  or  find  money  to  support  our  first  city  supported  Latino  festival  at 
University Park, or to help find money to help beautify central square, Louie was always willing to 
find a way to financially support these efforts. Today I serve with Louie on the CHA board, where I 
have witnessed firsthand his commitment to our immigrant community and those often served by a 
health care system. Louie is someone that has mastered the ability to find a balance between being 
fiscally  responsible  on  the  one  hand,  and  serving  the  most  in  need  on  the  other  hand.  This  is  the 
ability to bounce social and economic justice with fiscal responsibility. It’s one of the  -- one of the 
key  characteristics  of  some  of  the  best  leaders,  municipal  leaders.  Louie's  one  of  them.  So  when  I 
hear  members  of  this  council  suggest  that  we  need  a  new  city  manager  because  our  current  city 
manager does not have enough social economic justice in him, I want you to look in the mirror. And 
I want you to ask yourself: “Have I really been socially, socially and economically just myself? And 
for  how  long?”  I'm  bothered  by  those  of  you  in  these  chambers  that  often  question  others  for  not 
having enough social justice. When leaders like Louie have exemplified social and economic justice 
for much of their life. He's the one that he's walking through Central Square-- 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Two things. You have come to the end of your time, and I failed to introduce you appropriately as the 
former  vice  mayor  and  city  councilor  on  the  city  council.  So  please  accept  my  apologies  for  not 
doing that for you. But I would have to respectfully ask you to yield the floor. 
 
Dennis Benzan   
Okay. just 10 seconds? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Do I have unanimous consent for 10 seconds plus one. That's 11. 
 
Dennis Benzan   
Thank you. I appreciate it Madam Chair. I just want to end by just saying this. I'm a business owner 
in Central Square. Our city’s about to face one of the most important and critical challenges in the 
history of this city. I ask you guys to focus your attention on the challenges that lie ahead. Louie is 
someone  that  could  help  lead  us  through  these  challenges.  What  we're  about  to  see  in  the  city  is 
something  that  we  probably  have  never  seen  in  the  history  of  this  city.  So  I  ask  you  to  go  with 
stability and go with somebody that really knows our city. And let's not waste any time. Thank you. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 15 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
And thank you for your testimony. James Williamson? 
 
James Williamson   
Thank  you.  First  of  all,  I'd  like  to  ask  that  the  Department  of  Cambridge's  Department  of  Public 
Health be asked to remove – they are the principal website that is providing information on the virus 
and I would ask-- 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
That's not before us this evening. 
 
James Williamson   
Okay. I would like to ask why the city manager has perhaps not been more attentive to the fact that 
the  principal  place  for  information  linked  from  the  website  has  this  grotesque  image  of  the  actual 
molecule of the virus, which is not reassuring, which is kind of scary-- 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
I am going to help guide you a bit. We're speaking to the extension, could you keep your-- 
 
James Williamson   
I  thought  it  was  important  enough,  given  the  fact  that  we  have  this  pandemic,  to  bring  this  to  the 
attention of people in the government and in the government, including the manager. So I'm going to 
go out on a limb and predict that the manager’s contract will be extended. I do think there might be a 
question  about  MIT's  favorite  phrase:  you  can't  manage  what  you  don't  measure.  And  I  wonder  if 
there are metrics for measuring the performance of city managers and if there were what they would 
look like, and I'm not convinced they exist or that it would be necessarily very easy to come up with 
any. I just want to point out some areas where I've been disappointed. Somebody said earlier that it's 
the  little  things  that  matter.  I  think  some  people  seem  to  get  their  concerns  addressed  and  other 
people  don't.  On  Sunday,  the  Number  1  bus  is  going  to  no  longer  make  the  stops  around  Harvard 
Yard. It is going to turn down Dunster Street. I would like – I wish that the city administration and 
the management had done a better job advocating for those of us who don't have cars, which is what 
we're all supposed to be doing and rely on the bus service, which is no longer going to exist in the 
name of supposedly reducing the travel time by two minutes. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Mr. Williamson, please stay on the subject of the city manager. 
 
James Williamson   
I'm talking about issues of – people talked about baseball here. And I'm talking about – 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
In the context of the manager – 
 
James Williamson   
Yes, and I am talking about the city manager's role in sticking up for and giving voice to the concerns 
of the people who live in this city, I think some of my observations are actually more relevant than 
some of the things that have been allowed to be said by others. I'm concerned, I have concerns that I 
think  have  gone  unaddressed  by  the  city  manager.  So  is  it  alright  if  I  talk  about  some  of  those 
concerns or not? Okay, so not being able to take the bus anymore at stops that I've been relying on 

City of Cambridge 

Page 16 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

for  years,  is  a  concern.  Not  getting  protection  as  a  pedestrian  walking  along  a  supposedly  shared 
path. These are issues that I've actually sat down with, and met with the manager and discussed and 
hoped  for  these  concerns  being  addressed.  The  shared  pathways,  supposedly  shared  pathways  out 
where I live. You were interrupting me, and I think maybe I could get a little bit of a consideration 
for the fact that you were interrupting -- 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
With the council's consent, you have 10 more seconds. 
 
James Williamson   
Ten more seconds well, and this is a democratic process, that we're all supposed to be touting how 
wonderful it is. I’d just like the opportunity to speak to a few areas where I think there's been some 
failures. And that has to do with pedestrian safety out where I live where I don't even want to walk to 
the T station anymore because of the way people race their bikes through the supposedly shared path. 
Couldn't something be done about that? Nothing's been done. Couldn't something be done to train the 
lifeguards to be able to keep the DCR pool open for the two weeks that it's now being shut when $15 
million can be found to pay members of the Shocket family to sustain affordable units.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you so much for your testimony. 
 
James Williamson   
I, I there's a couple things that I would have liked to have said but this is obviously not a hospitable 
environment for people to be able to speak about their concerns. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Is there anyone who would like to speak on the record before we close public comment, please come 
forward.  Is  there  anyone  that  would  like  to  speak  on  the  record  before  we  close  public  comment? 
Seeing  none,  pleasure  of  the  committee.  On  a  motion  by  Councillor  McGovern  to  close  public 
comment, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed? The ayes have it have a comment is now closed. 
As I said-- 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Point of order, Madam Chair, we should do a roll call. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Oh, thank you. I forgot you were here. Roll call please Mr. Clerk. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   
On closing public comment Councillor McGovern? 
 
Councillor McGovern  
Yes.  
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler?  
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Yes.  

City of Cambridge 

Page 17 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   
Yes. Councillor Toomey?  
 
Councillor Toomey 
Yes.  
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   
Yes. Councillor Zondervan? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Yes. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   
Yes. Councillor Simmons?  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Yes.  
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   
Motion passes. Five in favor, zero against. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you. With the roll call vote, and my apologies to you Councillor Zondervan, Public Comment 
is now closed. As I mentioned earlier in the meeting, just for people's, anyone who has any health 
concerns, please do not feel as though you have to sit through the rest of the meeting. We'd like to 
encourage you to go to your place where you feel most – more safe. But I am not going to discourage 
you to stay if it is your will. That being said, so at our last meeting of the government operations, 
claims--  and  claims,  a  couple  of  things  came  up  we  took  them  as  suggestions,  I  came  up  on  the 
agenda. There was a discussion around evaluation, there was discussion around goals, and there was 
discussion about having a process in this process if I understood it correctly, that we would talk about 
what we're doing in context of our current city manager, while we looked for a new city manager—or 
put a process together. And I had said that I-- what I would do is I would look all those suggestions 
over,  which  I  did,  and  come  back  with  a  suggestion  of  a  process.  So  let  me  just  say  for  you,  my 
thoughts, and then we will open the floor and I hope that we will be able to take a few votes. And 
again, in the interest of people's health and safety, I would hope that we could do this in such a way 
we don't keep people very long. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
On  the  subject  of  evaluation,  it  did  come  up  that  the  council  did  not  formally  evaluate  the  city 
manager.  And  so  when  I  looked  over  the  records,  there  was--  that  the  government  operations  and 
claims  committee,  which  is  given  that  charge,  did  not  call  a  meeting  to  ask  for  a  public  or  full 
evaluation of the city manager. In the city manager's contract, it does say part 2.3, "The city council 
shall  review  and  evaluate  the  performance  of  the  city  manager  at  meetings  scheduled  by  the 
government  operations  rules  and  claims  committee  of  the  city  council.  Said  review  and  evaluation 
shall  be  done  in  accordance  with  Massachusetts  General  law  30A  chapter  18-25."    So  it  was  the 
responsibility of the government operations rules and claims committee to have that evaluation, it did 
not happen. However, I do want for the record and I will give this-- I can give this to our clerk, I do 
have a letter where the city manager did reach out to the members of the city council and said, “Since 

City of Cambridge 

Page 18 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

becoming  city  manager  I've  met  with  City  Councilors  and  listened  carefully  to  the  collective 
feedback that they've shared with me. I’ve work hard to be responsive to the advice provided to me I 
believe that giving and receiving honest feedback is the foundation of a positive relationship between 
our city manager and the City Council. If you're interested in meeting with me please contact Stacey 
Cooper, cc’d above, to schedule a time.” And then as a part of this letter, there were 12 opportunities 
to meet with him. But it also said, “if none of these times work for you, please give me a call through 
my  executive  assistant  and  I  will  accommodate  that.”  So  I  just  want  to,  for  the  record  say,  that 
although  the  government  operations  rules  and  claims  committee  did  not  call  for  an  evaluation,  the 
city manager on his own ability reached out to each city councillor and said, I want to sit down and 
go over my work performance with you. So, I want to clear the air about the fact that there was no 
evaluation of the city manager. There was an evaluation of the city manager. There wasn't one under 
government operations rules and the claims committee. I take that as the faux pas of the council and 
not of the city manager. The next item that came before as a suggestion was around the goals. And I 
did  sit  down  and  talk  with  the  clerk  just  to  see  where  we  were  at,  what  goals  that  we  might  be 
considering.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
And  the  record  shows  that  the  goals  that  this  council  is  operating  under  are  the  2017-2018  goals, 
because the government operations claims and rules committee did not take up the goals of the city 
council in that term. And so just so people know that the goals that we're working under are the 17/18 
goals. And where I think it is extraordinarily important that we have goals, a sense of purpose and a 
sense of direction, I just do think that one of the things that the council should do outside of the city 
manager's  discussion  on  his  extension,  it  should  not  be  in  this  context.  And  then  the  last  thing  I 
thought was very important was a conversation about looking for a new city manager. So either in 
two years or in four years, we will be looking for a new city manager. And I think that it is important 
that we have a process through which that we look to decide what that process is. I do believe that 
that  process  is  different  than  of  negotiating,  or  having  a  discussion  around  what  goes  on  with  our 
current city manager. So where I agree that there should be a process, I don't think these two are the 
same. I think one is about an extension. And the other is about who that new city manager may be. 
And  I  think  that  it  is  imprudent  upon  this  council  to  look  at  that  and  talk  about  that  and  have  a 
process through which we have that discussion. But I do not think it is appropriate to have it in this 
context.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
So what I am putting forward to you this evening is the following: that the government operations 
committee has now formally received the request from Louie A. DePasquale [sic] decided to enter 
into discussions to extend his contract as city manager. I see that as the first step. And that's what we 
are now.  His letter is here, we've accepted. I am going to ask that there is a motion that I, as the chair 
of  the  government  operations  committee,  be  authorized  to  have  a  discussion  with  Mr.  DePasquale 
regarding that request. The third step would be after that discussion, I would schedule an executive 
session to discuss strategies regarding this. The fourth step would be that we as the participants go 
into Executive Session to agree to negotiate an extension. And then the next step would be to hold 
the negotiations. And if those negotiations are successful, that would lead to Step five, which is that 
the government operations committee would then forward a recommendation to the full City Council 
for voting upon. Those are my suggestions and so with that, I open the floor for discussion. 
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey   

City of Cambridge 

Page 19 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

Madam  Chair  for  purposes  of  discussion,  I  would  move  to  a  vote  of  the  government  operations 
committee  to  authorize  the  chair,  Councillor  Simmons,  to  enter  into  negotiations  with  the  city 
manager in terms of the process that you just laid out. And to move forward with that. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you, Councillor Toomey. There is a motion before the committee to authorize the chair to be 
authorized to have a discussion with Mr. DePasquale regarding this request. Discussion. 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. And I would-- picking back up the point about the evaluation which is 
in the city's-- 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Councillor  Sobrinho-Wheeler,  we're  using  new  technology,  and  so  I  just  want  to  urge  you  to  slow 
down a little bit so that your testimony is picked up. 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Sure. Thank you. And, as you noted in the city manager's contract, section 2.3, it says the city council 
shall  review  and  evaluate  the  performance  of  the  city  manager  at  meetings  scheduled  by  the 
government operations rules and claims committee of the city council. And that also, those meetings-
- said review and evaluation shall be done in accordance with the Open Meeting laws. As you noted, 
we haven't had those meetings and you pointed out that the city manager reached out to Councillors 
and that isn't the same thing as having an open evaluation process. And those meetings were off the 
record. They weren't done in accordance with Open Meeting Law. And I would suggest that to move 
forward  without  conducting  an  evaluation  would  be  in  violation  of  the  contract,  and  therefore  in 
violation of the city's charter, which puts in the council to hire the city manager. I would like to see a 
written evaluation done beforehand with input of each of the different Councillors. The city manager 
is  the  most  important  person  in  carrying  out  the  council's  goals  on  a  lot  of  different  aspects; 
municipal  broadband,  transit,  affordable  housing.  Evaluation  is  also  important  because  the  city 
manager  is  the  most  powerful  person  in  Cambridge  City  government,  and  our  neighbors  in 
Somerville and  in  Boston,  that  would  be  the mayor.  In  Cambridge,  that's  not  the  case.  It's  the city 
manager who isn't directly elected by the public. And I think it's our duty as the council to have a 
formal evaluation that's public so that councillors know-- So the public knows how Councillors stand 
on  the  city  manager.  And  I'd  like  to  see  the  evaluation  before  we  move  forward  with  the  contract 
extension. And I also don't think it's appropriate to make an important decision at this time, given the 
COVID-19 outbreak. There were a number of folks who didn't come tonight because of fear of being 
in open spaces. I know the solicitor is working on looking at Open Meeting Law and the potential to 
have public input and public meetings of the council at a way that complies with Open Meeting Law 
that  maybe  doesn't  necessitate  being  here  in  person.  I  would  like  to  see  this  take  place  before  we 
move forward. Thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you. Further discussion.  
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Madam Chair. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   

City of Cambridge 

Page 20 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

Councillor  Zondervan  and  then  we'll  hear  from  Councillor  McGovern.  Councillor  Zondervan  you 
have the floor. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thank  you,  Madam  Chair,  I  first  of  all  want  to  affirm  the  comments  by  my  colleagues  who  just 
spoke: I don't think we should even be having this meeting, given the seriousness of the crisis that 
we're dealing with. And I think it speaks to the question before us how this crisis has been handled 
thus far, and how it's being handled going forward. I think we have failed to prepare for this crisis, 
and it’s continuing to not prepare properly for what we are facing. I think that's a serious concern. 
And in terms of the process, the motion that you've proposed, I completely agree with my colleague 
that  it  would  be  inappropriate  to  proceed  in  that  manner,  without  having  an  evaluation  of  the  city 
manager's contract. And the evaluation will take place in the context of the goals set by the previous 
Council, I believe you meant to say that we are operating under the 2016-2017 goals because we did 
not  set  different  goals  in the  2018-2019  term.  And  we've  also  not  set  different  goals  in  the  current 
term thus far. And so, again, I don't think we can proceed in the way that you propose. I think the 
correct  way  to  proceed  is  to  conduct  an  evaluation  of  the  manager's  performance.  We  furthermore 
have the better part of a year to complete this process. So there's no particular need to move in this 
way.  And  our  attention  should  rightly  be  focused  on  dealing  with  the  coronavirus  crisis,  as  was 
pointed out during public comments by my colleagues, and not on conducting this particular process 
right now. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you for your remarks. Do you yield the floor councillor? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Yes, one more thing. We also are dealing with a gender discrimination lawsuit, which I also think is 
relevant and should be discussed in the context of this particular contract. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you, councilor. And Councillor Zondervan having yielded the floor, I will now give the floor 
over to Councillor McGovern. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
Thank you, Madam Chair. [sic] Just to make sure I understand correctly. The motion is to allow you 
just  to enter  into  conversations  with  the  city manager  about  an  extension. We are  not--  we are not 
approving an extension, at this point. We are not voting to extend his contract, at this point. In order 
for you to even begin to have those conversations with him, you need authorization in which to do 
that. Is that correct? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Yes, that is correct councillor. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
So, you know-- 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Point of order, Madam Chair. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   

City of Cambridge 

Page 21 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

Please state, please, please state your point of order, councillor. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
I don't believe that was a correct summary of the motion. The motion outlined five or six different 
steps, beginning with you having a conversation with the manager. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
I don't believe that's a point of order councilor, and I give the floor back to Councillor McGovern. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
So I think then, maybe I was confused. I thought that you were listing out the potential steps of the 
process, but the initial step or the initial motion was to allow you to start that process. Am I incorrect 
in thinking that -- hearing it that way? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
To respond to you, Councillor: the motion that I was calling for was to get the chair--  the chair be 
authorized to have a discussion with Mr. DePasquale regarding his request. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
Okay. So all we're doing tonight is giving you permission to start a conversation about his request for 
an extension. That I think is appropriate, it moves the conversation forward. It doesn't guarantee that 
an extension is going to be given, it doesn't guarantee that we can't take other steps in the meantime, 
but it allows you to start a conversation. And I apologize for not having either my computer or the 
contract right in front of me, but I do want to clarify one thing. Councillor Zondervan mentioned that 
we have a year or maybe he said over a year, I thought we had to let the manager know by September 
of this year, about whether or not we were extending his contract. So it is not-- am I correct in that 
[sic]. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
To  your  point,  I  believe  I'm  reading  the  right  section,  Section  three,  "The  Term",  3.4  reads  as 
follows: "If the city intends to continue meet Mr. DePasquale employment beyond January 8, 2021. 
It shall give written notice to Mr. DePasquale on or before September 14, 2020." 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
Okay,  so  we  don't  have  a  year  to  do  this.  We  have  until  September  14,  2020.  So  I  just  wanted  to 
make sure I was correct on that. You know, you asked to keep messages, you know, comments brief, 
so I will. So I'm not going to get into why I think it's appropriate to extend Mr. DePasquale's contract 
for two years. You know, I think it's very easy to focus on the things that we're not happy with. You 
know, we heard broadband mentioned a couple times. I'm not happy with that either. But yet, I don't 
know  quite  where  we  started  believing  that  we  have  to  be  happy  about  everything  that  somebody 
does  in  order  to  have  them  continue  to  be  employed  with  the  city.  You  know,  when  you  look  at-- 
when I-- and we heard comments about, and I mean no disrespect to former city manager Healy, but 
when  we  hear  comments  about  Mr.  DePasquale  is  just  an  extension  of  city  manager  Healy,  and 
although  I  didn't  serve  with  city  manager  Healy,  I  can  pretty  much  guarantee  you  haven't  been 
around at that time, when I look at the surveillance ordinance, first of its kind in the country that we 
passed,  the  facial  recognition  ordinance,  not  the  first  but  one  of  the  first,  the  bike  infrastructure 
ordinance, the first of its kind in the country. Mr. DePasquale went into those conversations at-- you 
know, timid on some not sure where he stood, against some of them, and was able to sit down with 
constituents,  with  stakeholders  to  discuss  and  work  out a compromise,  to  work  out  and  change  his 

City of Cambridge 

Page 22 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

opinion.  And  you  know,  that  is  something  we  didn't  see  in  the  past.  So  I  don't  make  that--  just 
because  someone  happened  to  work  in  City  Hall  when  Mr.  Healy  was  here  doesn't  mean  that  that 
person is Mr. Healy. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
You know, and-- and that's not a knock on Mr. Healy. There are a lot of good things Mr. Healey did. 
So  I  think--  but  beyond  that,  beyond  my  feeling  that  I  think  the  manager  has  earned  a  two  year 
extension, I do think I've been part of a few national searches. When we do them, we often hear from 
a  lot  of  the  same  people  we're  hearing  from  tonight  that  they've  gone  too  fast,  they've  been  too 
rushed. There wasn't enough input, having a two year-- an ability over two year extension to actually 
plan a community process where we can really think about and have time to talk about what we want 
to see in the next city manager is actually something I think would be a great benefit to the city. And 
so for those two reasons, I'm-- I am happy to move this forward and to vote to, again, only allow you 
to begin conversations and that does not guarantee anything. I'm only one person here, but I just felt I 
had  to  respond  to  some  of  the  things  that  we  heard  today.  You  know,  I  am  not--  I  am  not  in 
agreement with the city manager on every decision, nor should I expect to be, but he is open. He is 
flexible.  He  communicates.  He  is  willing  to  look  at  things  from  all  perspectives.  He  is  willing  to 
compromise. He is willing to collaborate. And those are all very positive things. Thank you, Madam 
Chair. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you, Councillor McGovern. Do you yield the floor? 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Point of information.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Please, please state your point of information 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
In the motion that the chair made, would the negotiations with the city manager just be between the 
chair and the city manager? Would they be the government operations committee as a whole? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Just the chair.  
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Is it possible to amend the motion to include the government operations committee? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
You  can  but--  I  would  have  to--  I  am  going  to  recognize  my  colleague  that  has  asked  to  have  the 
floor before you, and then we can come back to you. Councillor Nolan. 
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan   
Sorry, I didn't hear you. Thank you, Chair Simmons. I'm not a voting member of this committee. So I 
won't be able to vote on anything that's coming before us. And I also appreciate that you recognized 
me  so  that  I  could  respond  a  little  bit.  I  also  appreciate  the  research  you  did  on  the  couple  of 
questions that were raised at the last one, notably on the evaluation and the question of goals. And on 
the  evaluation:  it  is  unfortunate  that  the  prior  Committee,  which  I  believe  was  perhaps  not  your 

City of Cambridge 

Page 23 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

committee, did not convene to look at an evaluation. As you may remember, it happened a couple 
times when I served on school committee and it was not good. It's never positive for a body to not do 
its job. And that's part of our job, as you pointed out, that is not something that it was only on the city 
manager, it really was on the council to do. That being said, if this goes forward to have a discussion, 
it's not too late to do a very quick evaluation in the next month even of the city manager, which I as a 
council member would like to be able to, to contribute to. So I understand that it didn't happen in the 
past,  we  can't  change  that.  What  we  can  do  as  a  body  is  to  use--  there  are  several  existing  city 
manager evaluation forms, or even if it's just a very simple form of here are the goals that as you also 
pointed out, while they’re from 17-18, they’re at least our operating goals because we haven't, as a 
body  included  any  others,  have  the  city  manager  do  a  self  evaluation  and  then  even  if  it  is  just 
strengths and weaknesses, here's your goals, it seems to me it would make the process more complete 
as we move forward and that does not have to extend out. And I would definitely say it should not 
extend out for many, many months, even if we have till September, whatever this decision is made, it 
should not wait until September, in my view, because that would put us in a position of having only a 
few months, if, depending on where this was going. But again, I really believe and I, I can I know 
I've probably have a couple of my files of city manager kind of evaluation, just a very quick form, I 
encourage us and encourage you, as chair to consider just over the next month to ensure that that is-- 
we are following the contract that all of us have a chance-- and we and it's good for the city manager. 
This is-- evaluations are really positives about how it is that positive work was done and to really sit 
back  and  summarize.  And  on  the  question  moving  forward,  it  seems  like  you've  laid  out  the  steps 
again, I don't have a say in that. I do think they're-- this city manager has done a lot of really positive 
things for the city, and there's also some questions people have and that's where I sit and that I really 
actually want to benefit from hearing from all my colleagues and talking to people around the city 
about their sense of it, because it will be a very important vote that I will take and I right now, I'm not 
sure how I would vote because I feel like I need more information. Thank you so much.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
And thank you for your testimony. You're yielding the floor? Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler. 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Thank  you.  Yeah,  I  would  make  a  move  to  amend  the  motion  to  include  the  full  government 
operations committee in that contract extension discussions. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Is there any discussion on the amendment? Councillor McGovern 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
Madam Chair? Is there any-- having not been part of this previously-- Actually, I was but very early 
on. What's the precedent? How does this usually go? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you for raising that. So best practice recommends or suggests that the chair or the government 
operations, whoever that person may be, is the lead individual that has the discussion. And so please 
take the idea of a discussion that launches this conversation, one that opens up a process and does not 
close it out. It is so usually the best practice and I had an opportunity to talk to several people about 
this, that have done it as part of the job, this is this is the standard, is to first have a conversation, and 
then come back to the committee based-- with what comes out of that discussion. But again, it is just 
a conversation. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 24 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

Councillor Marc McGovern   
And  Madam  Chair  and  I believe--  I  believe  that  on  the  school  committee, it  was  similar.  It  wasn't 
when--  there  wasn't  a  government  operations--  wasn't  that  title.  I  believe  it  was  the  vice  chair  that 
would initiate conversations and then we would meet an executive session to discuss with the full-- 
with the full committee. I think if my memory serves me which-- 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
I  think  you're  absolutely  right  Councillor  McGovern.  It's  not  usually--  the  group  does  not  get 
involved until the groundwork has been laid out. And it's laid out usually by either-- on the school 
committee side, it's usually the laid out by the mayor or the vice mayor, the mayor designating a lead 
individual  to  lead those  discussion  and  bring it  back  to the  council.  So,  using  best  practice,  what  I 
have  suggested  to  this  committee  is  to  authorize  the  chair  to  start  that  discussion,  from  which  we 
have further discussion. Do yield the floor Councillor? Further discussion on the amendment. 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Point of information on that, what-- could you explain a little bit what groundwork would be laid in 
the discussion that would then be brought back to the committee? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Are you talking to me?  
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
I am. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
When  I  talk  about  groundwork--  so  we  do  know  that  the  [sic]--  superintendent  on  the  brain  now-- 
that the city manager is interested in extending his contract, but we have nothing to work with. And 
so the discussion would be looking at so what is the city manager looking-- What does that look like 
to him? We can't have a meaningful discussion about anything, until we have something in front of 
us.  And  so  this  groundwork,  if  you  will,  would  be  to  have  that  discussion  is:  What  is  it,  Mr.  City 
Manager, that you are seeking from the council by way of your two year extension? Then we bring 
that back in Executive Session because best practice has suggested that you don't negotiate personnel 
issues in an open forum. So that would be brought back to the voting members-- But any member of 
course, can come to executive session-- to the voting members to be discussed, negotiated, and then 
we will move forward, if that helps. Does that help you councillor?  
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
That does. Thank you.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Is there any further discussion on the amendment? Hearing none, we will then-- 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Madam Chair. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Councillor Zondervan. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   

City of Cambridge 

Page 25 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

Thank you. Could you clarify: has the manager requested a two year extension? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
The manager has requested a two year extension. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Okay.  And  could  you  explain  why  the  details  about  his  request  could  not  be  presented  to  the 
community as a whole. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
So Councillor Zondervan. Right now we're speaking about the amendment that has been offered by 
your colleague. And so discussion has to be around that amendment after which-- 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
That’s what I am discussing because-- 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Then I can't hear you very well. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
I apologize. His amendment is that the entire committee would enter into this conversation with the 
manager, rather than simply the chair. So, my question is why we would choose to have a chair in 
conversation with the manager. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
So if your question, Councillor, is why the chair, go into negotiation? My answer to you Councillor 
is best practices and former practices have been one which there is a lead person, it is usually more 
often than not the chair of government operations claims and rules, however the name is, and so I'm 
following  the  process,  the  procedure,  and  the  best  practices  of  earlier  processes.  Do  you  yield  the 
floor Councillor?  
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Yes.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you. Further discussion. We are now voting on the amendment. And let me just speak to the 
amendment  before  I  yield  the  floor  for  the  call  the  roll.  Again,  I  have  spent  a  great  deal  of  time 
talking with people who have done this and also relying on my earlier experience, having served as 
mayor and serving on the school committee on the best practices. And the best practice is one, were 
the – in this case, government operations, the chair leads the process and brings back the discussion-- 
the  fruit  of  that  discussion  with  the  candidate  to  the  committee.  So  I  will  not  be  voting  for  the 
amendment  because  I  think  we're  just  launching  a  conversation.  I  will  not  be  voting  for  the 
amendment because, as has been earlier said, we are sort of in a place where we are in a crisis. And I-
- although I value the point of view of my colleagues, this is not the time for us to be sort of slowing 
down a process that we need to move forward, because we're talking about the leadership of our city 
which  is  shared  by  way  of  our  charter  with  the  city  manager.  So  I  am  going  to  vote  for  the  main 
motion when it comes forward, which is that we start a discussion. Having said that, I yield the floor 
and I asked the clerk to make a call the roll. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 26 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   
On the amendment?  
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
No. 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Yes. 
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey   
No 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Yes. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
No. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   
The motion fails two in favor, three against. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
We are now going to-- 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Madam  Chair.  I  would  like  to  make a motion  that  we  move to  hold  a  meeting  to  evaluate  the  city 
manager's contract before we enter into negotiations and to my colleague’s point I agree that we don't 
have  to  agree--  approve  of  everything  in  the  city  manager's  position  to  extend  the  contract.  But  I 
think it's also true that we don't know how much of the city manager's performance we approve or 
don't approve of because we haven't evaluated it and every job I've-- 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Councillor, if you would please, we are in the process of a vote.  You had put an amendment before 
the Council, which failed. Now we have to move on the main motion unamended after which if you 
would like to bring your vote for it for discussion, and for a vote, you may but you cannot do it at this 
time.  
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Thank you Madam Chair. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
You're very welcome. Mr. Claerk. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   
Through  the  chair,  just  through  just  for  clarification,  I'm  just  going  to  read  the  motion  one 
more time for the body just so everyone's clear on what they're voting on. It was a motion  by 
Councillor  Toomey  to  authorize  the  chair  of  the  government  operation  rules  and  claims 
committee  to  meet  with  the  city  manager  to  discuss  his  contract  extension.  Is  that  correct, 
Councillor Toomey? 

City of Cambridge 

Page 27 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

 
Councillor Timothy Toomey   
[sic] 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   
On the motion. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
Yes. 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
No. 
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey   
Yes.  
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
No. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Yes. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   
The motion passes. Three in favor, two against. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you, Mr. Chair. Now, we, we have before us the proposal of a motion that will be offered by 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler.  
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Thank  you,  Madam  Chair.  I  would  move  before  we  enter  into  negotiations  that  we  have  a  simple 
meeting to evaluate the city manager's contract beforehand. To my colleague’s point, we don't have 
to approve of everything. I think we should have a discussion about what we approve of and we don't 
approve of before we enter negotiations. I wasn't on the council last term. I couldn't have a say on 
whether the government operations had such a meeting. And I would like to see us have one now. I 
think  it's  a  pretty  straightforward  request  to  have  a  written  evaluation.  In  every  job  I've  had,  I've 
gotten  a  written  evaluation  at  some  point,  usually  multiple  times  a  year.  And  that  this  is  the  most 
important position in Cambridge. And I think we'd be doing the public a disservice by not having an 
evaluation that was open to the public. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Do you yield the floor councillor? 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
I do. Thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Further discussion. Councillor McGovern. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 28 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

Councillor Marc McGovern   
Just  through  you  to  Councillor  Sobrinho-Wheeler, when  you  say  before  negotiations are  you-- just 
want to make sure-- is that before the chair starts, the motion we just passed to allow the chair to start 
talking with the manager? Are you talking-- there negotiation sort of-- they're there-- They happen 
multiple times, multiple steps. So when are you expecting this to happen? 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
I could amend the motion if it's helpful to within the next month, within the next maybe given the 
COVID virus and that we don't know the process, maybe within the next two months? 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
Through you Madam Chair. But again, is that -- my question is less about the time. But would your 
motion  for  preclude--  So  if  we  said that  we  would  do  this  in  two months, would  that  preclude  the 
chair from engaging in the initial discussion that we just passed? Because that's, I don't see that as a 
negotiation,  the  chair  is  not  negotiating  the  contract  with  the  manager,  the  chairs  will  be  having  a 
discussion  about  what  the  manager  is  looking  for  more  formally  and  bring  that  back.  So  I'm  just 
trying to get your definition of negotiation because I think an evaluation, you know, I would have no 
problem  writing  an  evaluation  doing  a  written  evaluation  of  the  superintendent  –  I'm  doing  it  to 
myself, Madam Chair – to the city manager. But I don't want to delay what we just voted on, which 
is  to  allow  Councillor  Simmons  to  begin  the  process  of  talking  to  him.  So  I  guess,  what's  your 
definition of negotiation? 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Sure, I guess, I think a point of information would be helpful in just understanding what is involved 
in the discussion. I know the chair talked about it a little bit. But if we have the, the timeline of the 
extension that the city manager is asking for, could you clarify a bit about what else will be discussed 
in the discussions with the city manager? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
What  the  city  manager  is  looking  for,  and  nothing  more  than  that.  So  we  now  know  that  the  city 
manager is looking for an extension of his contract. And so this discussion would be what would be 
those things that he would be interested in seeing as a part of this extension. I'm saying two years. I'm 
trying to remember what the letter said. But in part, if it is, indeed two years, it would be: “okay, City 
Manager, you want an extension for two years. What does that look like?” You know, so I can bring 
something back to the government ops committee and say, “This is what the city manager is looking 
for.” And then we could then say, this is what we would like. And I would think if that if it is your 
inclination or the committee's inclination to ask for an evaluation that would be at that time, because 
as  I  understand  it  from  having looked at  best  practices,  because  we  the  council  failed to  execute a 
formal evaluation, both parties they have to agree, it is not standard practice. And one might even say 
a bit disingenuous to ask someone who has not been formally evaluated because the body that was 
poised to do that failed to do so, did not do it. And then to make that contingent on one's renewal or 
extension is in general practice and could be seen as maybe even inappropriate. But to your point, if 
it's something that you might be interested in, that is something that I could take to him to see if that 
is something he would be willing to agree upon. But to try to make an evaluation, a requirement to 
have a discussion, when the council again, has -- I'm trying to find a benign word -- not exercised its 
responsibility under the contract to have done it, I believe is inappropriate. So I would respectfully 
ask that you allow, by this vote, to go forward and have a discussion to see what is exactly on the 
table, and then we come back in Executive Session and have that discussion.  
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 29 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Madam Chair. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
I think I still have the floor. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
I don't [sic] – Councillor Zondervan, you'd have to wait because Councillor McGovern still has the 
floor. He had yielded it to get a response. To respond to a question. He still has the floor and has not 
yielded it. Councillor McGovern.  
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
Thank you. And I think part of those discussions, you know, if the chair sits down, we know that the 
manager is looking for two years, that could change, he could change his mind and want more. But 
we at this point, it's two years. I don't think it will change, but it could. But part of those discussions 
would be you know, if the manager said, I'm looking for a two year extension, and I want to be paid 
$500,000  a  year,  he  would  lay  that  all  of  that  out  to  the  chair  who  would  then  come  back  in 
Executive Session to the council to say, here's what he's looking for. All we know now is that he's 
looking for a two year extension. We don't know if there's anything else he's asking for. That's when 
the negotiations begin, because then we respond to what he has put out there. So I don't you know, so 
I didn't think your motion would preclude that initial conversation from happening, but I just didn't 
know what you were thinking in your motion. As far as the motion itself: I am fine with doing an 
evaluation. I do want to-- hearing what the chair has said, I do want a little more clarification about-- 
I'm not ready to vote for that tonight is what I'm saying. But if we don't vote for tonight, it would not 
preclude us from bringing something forward and, you know, in the near future to do that. So today, I 
just have a couple questions in my mind that I want to think about. In terms of process, I will say for 
the record that I think I agree with the chair that I think the ball was dropped, you know, last term on 
this, but in how we proceed forward, I do want to think about that a little bit more, but I don't think 
an  evaluation  is  out  of  line  or  out  of  the  question.  So  I  will  not  vote  for  your  amendment,  or  that 
motion today. But I would like to talk to you more about that and maybe thinking about how we can 
move forward on something in the near future. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you Councillor McGovern. Are you yielding the floor? 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
Yes.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Councilor Zondervan, you have the floor. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thank you, Madam Chair. I'd like to first of all want to clarify that I have not read in the manager's 
letter  that  he's  formally  requesting  a  two  year  extension.  And  so  I  believe  that  will  be  one  of  the 
clarifications that you would obtain from him in your discussions as to the length of the extension. 
And I agree with my colleagues that we voted to authorize you to enter into conversation with him. I 
don't believe my colleague's motion would preclude or interfere with that in any way. I also believe 
that what the previous council did or didn't do isn't relevant. This current council is the one that has 
to decide on this contract extension or not. And not having a full evaluation, the manager while doing 

City of Cambridge 

Page 30 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

the negotiation, I don't think is this proper procedure. So, and I'm not sure if this-- if I need to do a 
formal amendment or, or this offer a slightly more precise wording of the motion, which I would say 
is that the government operations committee will conduct a full performance evaluation of the city 
manager prior to entering into negotiations around his request to extend his contract. And I would say 
that  that  evaluation  process  would  happen  after  and  in  parallel  to  your  conversations  with  the 
manager. I don't think it would preclude you from speaking with him tomorrow. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Okay, thank you. Are you yielding the floor?  Okay. Thank you Councillor Zondervan. So, it sounds 
like to me, if I understand you are putting in an amendment to Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler's main 
motion. So let me ask is there any discussion on the amendment-- which you may have to restate a 
slowly  because  it's,  although  you're  audible,  it's  a  little  garbled.  So  please,  slowly  and  succinctly 
restate your amendment to Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler's main motion. Councillor Zondervan you 
have the floor. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thank  you.  Yes,  Madam  Chair.  And  I  believe  my  colleague's  motion  was  for  the  government 
operations committee to have a meeting. And so I'm offering amendment by substitution that that we 
will  conduct  a  performance  evaluation.  So  I  will  read  it  again  more  slowly:  “That  the  government 
operations committee will conduct a full performance evaluation of the city manager prior to entering 
into negotiations around his request to extend his contract.” And I will also email a copy to the clerk. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you. Any questions? Does everyone understand what the motion is and so, what Councillors-- 
Are you yielding the floor Councillor Zondervan? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Yes. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
So Councillor Zondervan is trying to amend by substitution. The order of a motion that says that the 
government ops will conduct a full performance evaluation. Is there any discussion?  
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Yes, Madam Chair.  I can make a question about whether there can be an amendment or a separate 
motion. I'd like to see us leave this meeting with some other meetings scheduled to evaluate the city 
manager's contract. I'm open if we want to begin negotiations and set that meeting later, to make a 
motion that the evaluation would simply happen before we voted on the city manager's contract. I'm 
not sure if that's an amendment here or a separate motion. But would like to see us set a time for a 
meeting  at  the  last  government  operations  committee  meeting  there  was  a  lot  of  discussion  about 
having evaluation, we had more counselors than we have tonight, including the mayor and the vice 
mayor who weren't able to be here. I thought an evaluation would be the next step. I would like to see 
us get that on the books at this meeting-- 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
So  first  Councillor,  if  I'm  understanding:  you're  talking  about  the  amendment  by  substitution  of 
Councillor Zondervan. And so in terms of precedent of motions, we would vote that one – not unless 
you're trying to now put another motion before his motion by substitution. So you already have a-- if 
I understand the order, now have the Councillor Zondervan’s motion by substitution, we have your 

City of Cambridge 

Page 31 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

underlying order, which asks, I think pretty much the same thing. Because I don't necessarily see the 
difference between the two. So I'm going to look to my clerk here, because it would seem like now as 
you're going to rescind your main motion, to substitute it with this new one. And I'm not quite certain 
what  the  order  would  be,  because  we  still  have  the  underlying  motion  and  then  a  motion  by 
substitution of which you're now trying to amend. 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Point  of  order.    I'm  willing  to  make  it  as  a  separate  motion,  if  that  makes  things  more  simple 
procedurally. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
You would like at this time-- now we're talking about a motion by substitution. You will now want to 
put a motion before that one, that we vote that we have and evaluate  -- because I've totally lost the 
sequence here. So if you can help me, Mr. Clerk, 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   
If  I  may  through the  chair.  Councillor  Sobrinho-Wheeler  made  a motion  –  and  this  is  what  I  have 
written down, so if I have any part of this incorrect, please correct me Councillor  – the motion was 
that the government operation rules and claims committee meet to evaluate the performance of the 
city  manager  prior  to  entering  into  negotiations  to  extend  the  city  manager's  contract.  That  is  the 
main  motion  that's  before  the  body,  before  any  other  motions  aside  from  amendments  can  be 
evaluated  or  taken,  that  motion  has  to  be  disposed  of.  During  the  course  of  the  discussion  on 
Councillor  Sobrinho-Wheeler's  motion,  Councillor  Zondervan  made  a  motion  to  amend  Councillor 
Sobrinho-Wheeler's  motion  to  state  that  the  government  operations  committee  will  conduct  a  full 
performance evaluation of the city manager prior to entering into negotiations around his request to 
extend his contract. So the order of operations in this case is that the committee will dispose of the 
amendment, and then we'll dispose of the main motion before we can entertain any other motions. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Councillor  Zondervan  if  you  could  hold  just  for  a  moment.  To  our  clerk:  so  right  now  we're  just 
voting for a motion by substitution and the main motion. And if both of those fail, we go to the next 
one?  Or  do  we  say  if  the  vote  by  substitution  fails  and  the  main  doesn't  fail,  we  still  vote  for 
something that's similar to… 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   
If  the  motion  to  substitute  fails,  than  the  original  language  as  proposed  by  Councillor  Sobrinho-
Wheeler will be before the body for the council to vote on. The council could then vote that motion 
up or down whether it passes or fails, the council could entertain other motions, should there be any. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
I guess my question to you, because the motions by Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler are very similar, 
from  what  I  can  tell,  it  seems.  It  may  be  just  my  understanding  they're  very  similar.  Councillor 
Zondervan, I still have the floor, I will recognize you shortly. It just seems like they're very similar, 
but I'm gonna follow your lead on that. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   
I  didn't  bring  my  copy  Robert's  Rules  with  me,  but  under  the  rules,  the  chair  has  the  discretion  of 
determining if a motion is proper, if it is – that a motion is improper – if it is something that the body 
has already voted on. 

City of Cambridge 

Page 32 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
And that would be-- so this is where I was kind of going. In my mind, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, 
the motion that you elected to bring and the motion that you've already brought are very similar. It's 
almost to me like getting two bites at the same apple. And my ruling: if the main motion were to fail, 
and then you would try to bring that next motion – and according to the clerk, because of what I feel 
is  that  they're  so  similar,  that  would  be  an  improper  motion,  and  would  not  bring  it  to  the  floor, 
because I would rule it was an inappropriate motion because they're just too similar to me. So having 
said that, I do have your colleague waiting to be heard, after which, if you'd like to speak, and then I 
think we should move on to the vote. Councillor Zondervan. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Thank  you,  Madam  Chair.  I  do  apologize.  It's  a  little  difficult  to  do  this  remotely,  and  apologize 
through  you  to  my  colleagues  as  well  for  any  confusion  I'm  causing.  My  main  intent  of  the 
amendment  is  that  the  government  operations  committee  would  conduct  an  evaluation  versus  the 
original  motion,  which  says  that  the  operations  committee  would  have  a  meeting  to  have  an 
evaluation.  So  the  difference  being  that  the  evaluation  may  or  may  not  involve  meetings,  but  it's 
focused  on  conducting  evaluation  rather  than  just  having  a  meeting  to  evaluate  the  city  manager's 
performance. So I think evaluation can be more expansive than just having a meeting. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you, Councillor Zondervan for that clarification, I do have a better understanding. So if there's 
no further discussion, I would say this: again, having had several conversations around this process, 
and  the  idea  of  an  evaluation,  again,  it  is  not  best  practices,  not  standard  practice,  and  highly 
irregular, that you would evaluate someone at the time that they are asking for a two year or a two 
year extension, an extension, or a renewed contract. Although I do hear you very soundly, Councillor 
Sobrinho-Wheeler,  that  you've  not  had  the  opportunity  to  work  with  this  city  manager.  I  do 
understand that. However, I don't think the sins of the prior committee should be visited on the next 
group that falls behind. I still say that it was something that we should have done that did happen in 
some manner, maybe not formal as people would wish. So what I would then suggest is to allow me 
as the chair to have a discussion with the city manager – again, having talked to a number of people 
that have done this before, they have said that in terms of asking a candidate, a sitting employee to be 
evaluated  on  the  heels  of  their  contract  renewal,  whatever  iteration,  has  to  at  the  minimum  be  by 
mutual consent. So this committee would have to vote perhaps to do that. And then the city manager 
would  have  to  agree.  So  what  I  would  then  suggest,  we  can't  go  anywhere  if  we  can't  have  a 
discussion to launch the discussion about do you stay, do you go? How long do you want to stay? 
What do you want? For me to come back and say, okay, committee, this is what the city manager, 
our current city manager is looking to achieve. After which this committee could say, based on what 
the city manager would like, this is what we'd like to see. And then you can go into negotiation, but 
we're  trying  to  make  something  that  we  don't  have  the  framework  yet.  I'm  trying  to  offer  a 
framework.  And  so  I'm  not  going  to  vote  for  either  motion.  I  think  we  should  go  forward,  have  a 
discussion  and  from  that place,  we  now  have  a  baseline  from  which  to  go  forward.  We  will  know 
what the city manager’s intentions are, and then we can then discuss in Executive Session, what we 
see  as  the  places  to  which  we,  what  we  want  to  see  as  a  part  of  the  conditions  if  we  were  to  go 
forward. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   

City of Cambridge 

Page 33 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

We are also past the two hour limit. So to extend this meeting, I would have to have a vote because 
on our rules, so these meetings will not be more than two hours. So I'd like to entertain a motion to 
extend the meeting for 15 minutes. Is there a motion? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Roll call. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   
On extending the meeting for 15 minutes. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
Yes. 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Yes. 
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey   
Yes. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Yes. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Yes. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
So we would like the opportunity to then to go forward and call the question-- 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Madam Chair I believe you said you would recognize me after Councillor Zondervan. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Okay, well I recognize you, then Councillor Toomey, I would hope that we can have a vote before 
the meeting expires. 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
I take everything you say into consideration, and I'm willing to vote to move into discussion, I would 
just like to see us leave the meeting with an agreement for an evaluation at some point in the future. 
I'm willing to amend my original motion to have that evaluation be before the council votes on the 
city manager's contract if we want to start discussion, and I would just like to see us-- we've had two 
meetings now talked a lot about evaluation. I'd like to see us leave this meeting with an agreement to 
have an evaluation before we vote on the final product of the city manager's contract. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Thank you, Councillor. Do you yield the floor?  
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
I do. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 34 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

Councillor Timothy Toomey   
Thank you Madam Chair. I just want to re-emphasize just what you just previously said that you're 
going to have a conversation with the City Manager to lay out the parameters, the framework of how 
we're going to move forward. And after your discussions, you will be coming back to the government 
operations committee members, in discussing with those parameters and the framework side. And as 
that would be most appropriate time then to look at how we're going to move forward with includes 
the city manager evaluations. But until the conversation takes place between the chair, which is the 
most  appropriate,  of  the  government  operations  committee,  and  I  don't  know  why  the  previous 
government  committee  didn't  do  the  evaluation  of  the  goals,  but  that's  behind  us.  But  moving 
forward, you certainly have taken the lead to get this process moving the way it should be moving 
and so once we get those parameters, the framework then all those discussions after you share with 
the members of the committee can then take place and we can do as many evaluations or whatever 
and things but-- We have to first have that conversation then to allow that process to continue in the 
way  it's  supposed  to  be conducted.  And it’s  concluding  evaluations.  That's  how  we  move  forward. 
But until you have that, and the manager have the conversation, then we're just spinning the wheels 
here. So I would move the question on the, I know there's two motions, the substitution motion. I'll 
move the question on those. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
So Councillor Toomey has moved the question.  I will now call the roll. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   
This  is  on  the  motion  to  move  the  question.  If  the  motion  to  the  question  passes,  then  we 
automatically move on to Councillor Zondervan's motion to amend. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
No. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Do  you  know  what  you  are  voting  for?  This  motion--  Councillor  Toomey  has  moved  to  call  the 
question. You have to vote a motion to call the question.  
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
My bad.  Yes, I vote to call the question. 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Yes. 
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey   
Yes 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Yes 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Yes. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   

City of Cambridge 

Page 35 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

The motion passes five in favor zero against. On Councillor Zondervan's motion to amend Councillor 
Sobrinho-Wheeler's motion.  
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
No 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Yes. 
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey   
No 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Yes. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
No. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   
The motion fails two in favor, three against. On Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler's motion, which I will 
restate just because it's been some time, that the government operations rules and claims committee 
meet to evaluate the performance of the city manager prior to entering into negotiations to extend the 
city manager's contract. 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Madam Chair I would like to make a motion to amend that motion. Can I do that? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
No. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   
Councillor McGovern? 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
No.  
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Yes. 
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey   
No. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Yes. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
No. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   

City of Cambridge 

Page 36 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

March 12, 2020 

The motion fails two in favor, three against 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Having  taken  care  of  the  business  of  this  meeting,  I  would  like  to  entertain  a  motion  for  the 
committee to adjourn. Do I have a motion? On a motion by Councillor Toomey to adjourn, roll call. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk   
On a motion to adjourn.  
 
Councillor Marc McGovern   
Yes 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler   
Yes 
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey   
Yes 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan   
Yes 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
Yes. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons   
This meeting is adjourned.  
 

1.  A communication was received from Councillor Simmons, transmitting a letter from City Manager 
Louis A. DePasquale, who is serving formal notice of his desire to enter into formal negotiations with 
the City Council to extend his contract with the City beyond January 2021. 

2.  A  communication  was  received  from  Ruby  Pierce  Donohue,  regarding  city  manager  contract 

3.  A  communication  was  received  from  Ann  Tennis,  71  Griswold  Street,  regarding  city  manager 

extension 

contract extension 

4.  A communication was received from Bishop Brian C. Greene, Sr. Pastor at Pentecostal Tabernacle, 

regarding City Manager contract extension 

5.  A communication was received from Charles Franklin regarding Manager Contract Hearing 

6.  A communication was received from Henrietta Davis, 120 Chestnut Street, regarding City Manager's 

contract. 

 

City of Cambridge 

Page 37 

  

