ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT & UNIVERSITY RELATIONS 
COMMITTEE 
 

COMMITTEE MEETINGS 

~ MINUTES ~ 

  Thursday, November 19, 2020 

2:00 PM 

Sullivan Chamber 

  Call to Order 

Attendee Name 
Alanna Mallon 

Patricia Nolan 

Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler 

Timothy J. Toomey 

Quinton Zondervan 

 

 

Present 

Absent 

Late 

Arrived 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

The Economic Development and University Relations Committee will conduct a public hearing to 
discuss challenges and opportunities that exist in City purchasing, procurement and programs for 
MWBEs and other historically disadvantaged businesses and non-profits in Cambridge. 
Present via Zoom were Councillor Nolan, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Councillor Zondervan, 
Councillor Simmons, Councillor McGovern, Mayor Siddiqui, Iram Farooq, Assistant City Manager for 
Community Development, City Solicitor Nancy Glowa, Pardis Saffari, Senior Economic Development 
Manager, Elizabeth Unger, Purchasing Agent, Betsey Allen, Director of Equity and Inclusion, Lisa 
Hemmerle, Director of Economic Development, Christina DeLisio, Associate Economic Development 
Specialist, Claire Spinner, Chief Financial Officer of the Cambridge Public Schools, Wanda Colon-
D’Angelo, Director of State Certification at the Supplier Diversity Office, Dmitriy Nikolayev, Director of 
Policy, Programs and Reporting at the Supplier Diversity Office, William McAvoy, Deputy Assistant 
Secretary for Supplier Diversity, Small Business & Compliance & Chief Legal Counsel, Zelpha Bennett, 
Operational Services Division Trainer, Nicola Williams, Segun Idowu, Suzanne Blier, Andree Entezari, 
and Angela Hofmann. 
 
Vice Mayor Mallon convened the hearing and welcomed all present.  She read the Governor’s Order 
regarding remote participation and the Call of the Meeting.  She requested a Roll Call to indicate a 
quorum for the hearing.   
 
Vice Mayor Mallon read from a prepared written statement (ATTACHMENT A).  She said that this 
meeting is this meeting is to discuss the challenges Minority and Women Owned Businesses and 
Enterprises (MWBEs) face in operating in the City and where there are places to support this important 
sector of our economy.  MWBEs a generally accepted term, but that they are speaking about all 
historically disadvantaged businesses, such as those owned by persons with disabilities or LGBTQ+ folks.  
She said that MWBEs face steeper climbs when starting or running businesses, and that municipalities 
must help with those challenges through targeted efforts, like a sheltered market program, grants, vendor 
fairs, technical support, resource connection, and more.  She hoped that the team from the state can touch 
on recent news that the Governor is reorganizing the Supplier Diversity Office (SDO) to be part of his 
team rather than part of the Operational Services Division (OSD) starting next July.  That would give 
SDO more autonomy and a bigger budget for additional staff. There is also a proposal to increase the 
evaluation percent of state bids to count for 25%, up from 10%, based on the MASSport model.  She said 

City of Cambridge 

Page 1 

  

Minutes 

Economic Development & University Relations Committee 

November 19, 2020 

that these moves are part of a larger movement around recognizing that the state and municipalities spend 
a lot of money, and not enough of it is flowing into our MWBEs. 
 
Vice Mayor Mallon moved to public comment. 
 
Nicola Williams, Brewer Street resident, stated that she is representing the Cambridge and Somerville 
Black Business Network.  She asked for clarification of page 8 of CDD’s PowerPoint presentation on 
whether the Cambridge minority enterprise program only applies to the construction industry.  While state 
certification helped her business, it doesn’t benefit all businesses, so she hopes that this is just the 
beginning of a conversation that goes deeper.  She shared 11 action items identified by the Cambridge and 
Somerville Black Business Network that would help uplift MWBEs. A written communication was 
received from Ms. Williams (ATTACHMENT B). 
 
Segun Idowu, 2:11 p.m.  He is the Executive Director of the Black Economic Council of Massachusetts 
(BECMA), which has 350 members across the state.  He emphasized the importance of having data, 
setting goals on doing business with MWBEs, and holding City staff accountable in meeting or exceeding 
those goals.  The City must partner with organizations like BECMA to ensure they can connect their 
business members to opportunities in case the City isn’t reaching them directly.  The City must ensure 
there are necessary resources, like technical assistance and others, and that the City is reporting these 
resources publicly.  
 
Suzanne Blier, 5 Fuller Place, 2:14 p.m.  She said engagement is critically important, especially during 
the time of a pandemic, where we’re given the opportunity to think from the ground up.  There are 
contexts in which we can use this to our advantage in supporting and promoting small businesses.  It is 
critical to not think in a zero-sum game perspective, and promoting, amplifying, and supporting each 
neighborhood and business square. She said that we should take the opportunity to go to vacant property 
owners and set goals using those spaces. 
 
Andree Entezari, 83 Putnam Avenue, 2:16 p.m.  He is working with a campaign promoting permits for at-
home food entrepreneurs.  These permits give food entrepreneurs the ability to make food in their 
kitchens at home and sell those goods at farmers markets and other fairs, utilizing resources people 
already have.  Minority businesses are more likely to lack access to capital, and this is especially timely as 
we are in a pandemic, as minority businesses, especially in food spaces, are suffering.  To them, these 
opportunities are crucial. 
 
Angela Hofmann, 2:18 p.m.  She is the small business owner of Nussli118 in North Cambridge.  She has 
received grants from the City and gotten orders from the City’s diversity directory, but she has had 
difficulty in getting her business up and running.  Establishing a storefront in Cambridge is really difficult 
because of zoning regulations, and as a Cambridge resident, she couldn’t work out of her home to 
establish a base before opening a storefront.  This creates high hurdles that people can’t rise over, and she 
hopes to see action in eliminating these hurdles.  
 
Councillor Toomey made a motion to close Public Comment. The roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
YEAS: 

Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Nolan, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Councillor 
 
Toomey, Councillor Zondervan   

-5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-0 

 

 
ABSENT:  

 

and Public Comment was closed. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 2 

  

Minutes 

Economic Development & University Relations Committee 

November 19, 2020 

Vice Mayor Mallon recognized that, in addition to the Committee members, Councillor Simmons and 
Councillor McGovern were also in attendance.  She asked the team from the state to introduce 
themselves. 
 
William McAvoy, Wanda Colon-D’Angelo, Dmitriy Nikolayev, and Zelpha Bennett gave a summary of 
their PowerPoint presentation of the Supplier Diversity Office of the Operational Services Division 
(ATTACHMENT C). 
 
Vice Mayor Mallon thanked them for the presentation and noted that it can be found on the Open Meeting 
Portal.  She recognized that Mayor Siddiqui had joined the meeting. 
 
Lisa Hemmerle, Pardis Saffari, Elizabeth Unger, and Betsey Allen, gave a summary of a PowerPoint 
presentation by the Community Development Department (ATTACHMENT D).  
 
Vice Mayor Mallon thanked them for the presentation and invited the City Councillors to ask questions.  
 
Councillor Nolan said she appreciates the thoroughness of the presentations.  Re: the state trying to 
increase monitoring on compliance, what are the lessons we’ve learned on compliance as these programs 
have been in place?  William McAvoy said that they are creating a compliance unit within the SDO.  
Certain other state departments that do construction already have compliance units for those complex 
construction projects. He stated that SDO’s current compliance efforts have been done internally with 
staff.  Dmitriy Nikolayev established a program a year and a half ago to check statewide contracts issued 
by OSD and perform sampling of high-risk contracts.  They may contact diverse business partners used 
by state prime contractors to confirm amounts spent with them.  Once the SDO becomes an independent 
agency and they receive funding for Fiscal Year 2022, his hope moving forward is to create a compliance 
unit focusing on compliance with contractors using certified firms, and the agencies that are spending the 
money.  Councillor Nolan noted she ran two certified women-owned businesses many years ago and that 
encouraging, and monitoring certification is complex. 
 
Vice Mayor Mallon asked City staff to speak on what data it keeps, and how it is publicly transparent on 
how it meets the goal of 10% of bids going to minority-owned construction subcontractors.  She stated 
that the upcoming Tobin School renovation costs $230 million, which would infuse $23 million into 
minority-owned businesses.  Betsey Allen answered that they are required to keep weekly certified 
payroll at the prevailing wage rate, and that ensures the contractors are hiring minorities.  They can also 
conduct site visits to physically confirm that.  City-wide, they’re looking to take advantage of the open 
data portal, and there may be an opportunity there for the City to add that data to the open data portal.  
She would be interested in discussing this further with the City’s communications team, and she is open 
to suggestions.  Councillor Nolan applauded her efforts, and restated that it’s critical to support 
entrepreneurs across the board.  
 
Councillor Toomey thanked the presenters.  He said that, as we talk about becoming a City vendor and 
doing marketing to increase awareness about it, he wonders if there’s been any outreach to the high 
school and to charter schools that have large populations of minority and women students.  He said that it 
could be a presentation saying that this could be a career opportunity to plant a seed of interest.  He also 
wondered about doing outreach to the YWCA and to faith organizations with large minority and women 
populations to get the word out more.  Lisa Hemmerle stated that there have been conversations on how 
to better reach out to internal City departments to ensure we’re promoting MWBEs.  They are building on 
lessons learned from their COVID-19 Recovery and Relief Grant program and those outreach efforts in 
case there is additional funding in the future.  They are working with community organizations to ensure 
they are aware of their programs, and that even if it is not with a church directly, it would be with the 
members of the church directly.  Councillor Toomey responded that churches have different activity 

City of Cambridge 

Page 3 

  

Minutes 

Economic Development & University Relations Committee 

November 19, 2020 

committees, and that after the pandemic is over, the City could give presentations to those committees 
promoting these kinds of programs.  
 
Vice Mayor Mallon stated that Claire Spinner, Chief Financial Officer for the Cambridge Public Schools, 
was at the meeting and could answer school specific questions.  
 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler thanked the presenters.  Re: the requirement for City construction 
contractors to subcontract 10% of the bid price to minority-owned businesses, is that just for construction 
bids?  Is there an opportunity to expand that beyond just construction to other types of contracts?  Betsey 
Allen confirmed that it is just for construction bids due to the restrictions of state purchasing laws, but it 
is an opportunity for minority-owned businesses to earn quite a bit of money.  Councillor Sobrinho-
Wheeler asked if it is a state law that is preventing the City from expanding this requirement to other 
types of contracts?   Elizabeth Unger clarified that there are three different state regulatory scenarios for 
purchasing.  Chapter 149 regulates construction, Chapter 39M governs horizontal construction projects 
like street paving, and Chapter 30B governs supplies and services.  There are different requirements for 
each, and Chapter 30B requires the contract to go to the responsible and responsive vendor offering the 
lowest price once the monetary threshold requiring a competitive bid process is reached.  She stated that 
the City has the most flexibility in contracting with MWBEs is when the contract is under $10,000, 
allowing the City to operate under sound business practices under Chapter 30B, which entails periodically 
checking price lists to ensure the City is getting a good price.   
 
Councillor Zondervan stated that he does not have any questions, but that he appreciates the hard work 
that has been put into this effort.  He recognized the challenging constraints that our state laws put into 
place, and that we have to work hard to find ways around the laws and to improve the laws so we can do 
more.  
 
Vice Mayor Mallon invited non-committee members to ask questions.  Of the initiatives listed on page 9 
of CDD’s PowerPoint presentation, there is an initiative of promoting state online workshops.  What 
about workshops on how to register with the state, how to get people up and running?  Are there plans for 
workshops in that area?  There is more flexibility with using OSD certified vendors because we can use a 
best value determination and we could put a value on diversity, but there is some anxiety about getting 
registered with them.  Pardis Saffari answered that OSD offers several different trainings for those 
looking to get certified by the state, and what they should do to apply for a bid once certified.  They are 
interested in replicating what the state has done for state projects on the local level.  She stated that in the 
past the City has conducted pre-certification workshops, which is a requirement for businesses applying 
for certification, and will look to promote the online versions of those to Cambridge businesses.   
 
Vice Mayor Mallon asked for confirmation that procurement using an OSD certified vendor allows the 
City to use a best value determination that includes placing value on diversity.  Elizabeth Unger stated 
that OSD procures their contracts competitively on the state level, and that the City can, if seeking quotes 
from vendors authorized under OSD contracts, place a higher value on a diverse vendor that may be a bit 
more expensive, over a lower-priced vendor who is not part of a disadvantaged group.   
 
Vice Mayor Mallon stated that it seemed one of the City’s best options is to ensure our MWBEs are 
certified with OSD and applying for those competitive procurements so we can use them more flexibly.  
Zelpha Bennett asked to expand on trainings to support vendors.  All of their trainings are being offered 
virtually, and there is a link on the last slide of the Supplier Diversity Office of the Operational Services 
Division PowerPoint presentation to their current training calendar.  Live webinars and some prerecorded 
videos are available for businesses interested in contracting with the state or the City.  She is available to 
help businesses get up to speed and support vendors.  William McAvoy stated that all OSD procurements 
are best value procurements, and municipalities can use OSD contracts.  He said that in addition to 

City of Cambridge 

Page 4 

  

Minutes 

Economic Development & University Relations Committee 

November 19, 2020 

diverse businesses having OSD contracts themselves, all contracts must have a supplier diversity plan, 
including those from non-diverse contractors.  If, for example, a contractor commits spending 20% of 
their project spending to a diverse business, you can count on 20% of your spending going to a diverse 
subcontractor.  OSD has an index of contracts that will note if a business is diverse.   
 
Vice Mayor Mallon stated she is confused about the state having different regulations for itself and for 
municipalities under Chapter 30B.  She stated that there is an opportunity to have a sheltered market 
program under Chapter 30B that would allow more flexibility.  What would the process be for 
implementing a sheltered market program here in Cambridge?  Elizabeth Unger explained that Section 18 
of Chapter 30B addresses sheltered markets and authorizes municipalities to set aside a contract or a type 
of contract to be directed towards disadvantaged vendors.  It is an extremely complex process that 
requires a legal analysis, and the City Solicitor would know how to best implement a sheltered market in 
compliance with the requirements.  Elizabeth Unger stated that she has reached out to the state, but they 
have not opined on this, so municipalities must turn to their legal counsel for specific guidance.   
 
Vice Mayor Mallon asked if there are other municipalities using sheltered market programs for 
disadvantaged vendors currently?  Would it be possible to reach out to those communities?  Elizabeth 
Unger responded that she is not aware of any that currently have a sheltered market program, but she will 
cast a wider net in reaching out to other communities’ procurement officers.  Vice Mayor Mallon asked if 
there is a monetary threshold for sheltered market programs, or would the City set it?  She stated that the 
City has more flexibility with contracts under $10,000, while contracts between $10,000 and $50,000 are 
more restrictive, but if we truly want to create equity in the system, we need to be talking about bigger 
dollars.  Elizabeth Unger deferred to the City Solicitor for a deeper legal analysis but noted that she did 
not see a number jumping out.  City Solicitor Glowa stated that she does not have anything further at this 
time but would be happy to do some research and get back to the Committee. 
 
Vice Mayor Mallon stated that, at the state level, diversity can be weighted 10% in procurement currently, 
and they are looking to increase it to 25%.  Is it allowable for the City to put this weight on diversity in 
procurement?  Elizabeth Unger responded that under a $10,000 threshold, the City has great flexibility to 
go to any vendor.  If a department was making a conscious effort to reach out to MWBEs, we could do 
that legitimately under sound business practices.  At higher monetary thresholds, we have to go with the 
responsive, responsible vendor that offers the lowest price as we look for quotes or enter into a sealed bid 
process.  For contracts over $50,000, we typically use a sealed bid process, but we sometimes use a 
proposal process where we weight various criteria.  Diversity could be one of the criteria, but it would be 
a small component of any RFP, and she is not sure how effective that would be in awarding more 
contracts to MWBEs.  
 
Vice Mayor Mallon stated that one public commenter asked about data, and how we keep track of the 
amount we spend with MWBEs in relation to our total budget spending.  She said that she knows the City 
tracks money spent with minority businesses on construction, but do we track the amount the City spends 
with MWBEs?  Does the City have a spending goal for MWBEs in procurement?  Elizabeth Unger said 
that the Purchasing Department does not currently track what they spend with MWBEs, but they are 
working with the Community Development Department (CDD) and IT to create a system to track that 
spending.  There is not a set goal on spending for goods and services.  Vice Mayor Mallon said the 
Committee should discuss what the spending goal should be. 
 
Councillor Nolan said we wants to build on Councillor Toomey’s questions on outreach to young 
entrepreneurs.  The Possible Project, which operates in Cambridge, has done a fantastic job in creating a 
pipeline of young entrepreneurs, mostly young people of color or those with low-income backgrounds.  
She asked if the City has thought about conducting a disparity in spending study?  Boston started their 
own study a year ago.  Councillor Nolan’s understanding is if the City conducts a study and find disparity 

City of Cambridge 

Page 5 

  

Minutes 

Economic Development & University Relations Committee 

November 19, 2020 

in its procurement process, that would allow the City to create its own procurement processes that are not 
as limited by Chapter 30B.  William McAvoy stated he is only aware of Boston performing a spending 
disparity study.  For state agencies, the Division of Capital Asset Management completed a disparity 
study and issued new goals this past July.  Re: data, SDO has worked with other entities and can work 
with the City to offer data analytics assistance, comparing the City’s spend to others their database, and 
helping them how much spending has been done with diverse businesses.  Councillor Nolan said that a 
spending disparity study might be something to consider if it could help the City move towards its goals. 
 
Re: diversity directory, Vice Mayor Mallon stated that it will be done by the end of the year.  It is just a 
PDF without live links.  Is it going to be in a different format that can be more easily utilized by users to 
connect them to businesses?  Pardis Saffari said that they have looked into adapting the directory beyond 
a PDF.  They also asked Cambridge’s top 25 employers to note whether they would be interested in doing 
business with MWBEs while completing a survey, to make those connections and provide them with the 
directory.  Christina DeLisio said that they have worked with the IT Department to develop a new intake 
tool using the SmartSheets program.  It allows them organize data on the back end and take the back-end 
data to present the data in a forward-facing way that is clean, easy to use, and highly searchable.  The 
final product will look like the current list of businesses that are open or closed because of COVID, which 
allows people to search by keyword and according to a lot of different fields.  Vice Mayor Mallon 
thanked her for this work with Cambridge Local First to ensure the diversity directory is dynamic and 
easy to use.   
 
Vice Mayor Mallon stated that Boston’s spending disparity study uncovered a stark difference in 
Boston’s spending with MWBEs and non-MWBEs, and it started a conversation on how to address it.  
You need data in order to do a study, and it sounds like the work to collect that data is underway so we 
could eventually do a disparity study and direct our efforts there.  Re: transparency on where construction 
dollars are being spent, she loves the idea of putting the information on the Open Data Portal so people 
can see in real time where and how we’re spending our money, and how much money is going towards 
disadvantaged enterprises.  Vice Mayor Mallon wants the Committee to think about what kind of goals to 
set on a percentage of City dollars to be spent with MWBEs.  The City spends a lot of money, and it 
should be uplifting and supporting our MWBEs in Cambridge.   
 
Vice Mayor Mallon made the following motion:  
 
ORDERED:  That the City Manager, City Solicitor, and Purchasing Department confer to 

provide a report on the possible implementation of a sheltered market program here 
in Cambridge. 

 
Vice Mayor Mallon said it would be impactful to see what it would mean, what it would entail, what the 
process would be, and how it would support our MWBEs.  It could be a powerful tool in the City, and she 
applauds the Purchasing Department, the Community Development, and the Office of Equity and 
Inclusion for their dedication in finding creative solutions and creating new initiatives. Some of the ideas 
seem so simple but will make a lasting impact.   
 
The roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
YEAS: 

Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Nolan, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Councillor 
 
Toomey, and Councillor Zondervan 

-5 

 

 

 
ABSENT: 
 
And the motion passed on the affirmative vote of five members. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-0 

City of Cambridge 

Page 6 

  

Minutes 

Economic Development & University Relations Committee 

November 19, 2020 

 
Vice Mayor Mallon thanked the staff from OSD for providing an overview of what procurement looks 
like at the state, and how we can empower MWBEs to register and take advantage of state-level 
resources.  
 
On a motion from Councillor Toomey to adjourn the hearing, the roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
YEAS: 

Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Nolan, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Councillor 
 
Toomey, and Councillor Zondervan 

-5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-0 

 

 

 

 
ABSENT: 
 
 
The hearing adjourned at 3:50 p.m. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I.  Discussion 

1.  A  communication  was  received  from  Assistant  City  Manager,    Community  Development,  Iram 

Farooq, transmitting an overview of current WBE/MBE programs from. 

2.  A  communication  was  received  from  Pardis  Saffariof  the  Cambridge  Community  Development 

Department, transmitting the Commonwealth’s Operational Services Division Presentation. 

II.  Adjournment 

 

City of Cambridge 

Page 7 

  

