 

 

In City Council December 14, 2020 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
HOUSING  
COMMITTEE MEMBERS 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons, Co-Chair 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler, Co-Chair 
Vice Mayor Alanna M. Mallon 
Councillor Marc McGovern 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan 
 
The Housing Committee held a public hearing on Thursday, October 22, 2020 at 5:30 p.m. in the Sullivan 
Chamber to receive an update from the Community Development Department and the Affordable 
Housing Trust Fund on potential changes made to the eligibility preferences for the Inclusionary Housing 
Program.  
 
Present at the hearing were Councillor Simmons, Naomie Stephen, Neal Alpert, and Paula M. Crane, 
Deputy City Clerk. 
 
Participating in the hearing via Zoom were Councilor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor 
McGovern, Councillor Zondervan, Councillor Nolan, Mayor Siddiqui, Chris Cotter, Housing Director, 
Justine Cabrera, Justine Cabrera, Senior Manager for Inclusionary Housing, Linda Prosnitz, Housing 
Project Planner, Community Development Department (CDD), Maura Pensak, Housing Liaison to the 
City Manager, Michael Johnston, Executive Director, Cambridge Housing Authority (CHA), Nancy 
Glowa, City Solicitor , Tina Alu, Executive Director, CEOC, Anthony Wilson, City Clerk, Bo Fuji, 
Heather Hoffman, James Williamson, and John Hawkinson. 
 
Councillor Simmons read the Governor’s Order relating to Zoom participation. Councillor Simmons 
requested the Deputy City Clerk call the roll to indicate a quorum for the hearing and that the hearing was 
clearly audible to Zoom participants. 
 
The roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
PRESENT: 

Councillor Simmons, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Vice Mayor Mallon and Councillor 
McGovern 
 
Councillor Zondervan 
 

 
ABSENT: 
 
A quorum was present. 
 
Councillor Simmons read from a prepared written opening statement (ATTACHMENT A). She then 
invited Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler for his opening remarks.  
 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler stated that Cambridge is facing an affordable housing crisis. He said that 
there are parts that must be addressed via state and federal funding. He said that Inclusionary Housing 

-4 

-1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

preferences are under the control of the City Council, that this is a tangible step that can be taken on the 
local level, and that he is excited to hear this evening’s presentation.  
 
Councillor Simmons noted that the Housing Committee received a communication from Kavish Gandhi 
and asked that this communication be made part of the permanent record of the hearing.  
 
Councillor Simmons opened the hearing to Public Comment. 
 
Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street, stated that she is glad to see this issue getting some attention. She 
said that she wondered whether an additional item could be considered: she said that she knows numerous 
people who live in Inclusionary units who have wanted to take in a homeless person (people whom they 
already know) to live with them, but have been prevented from doing so because of the existing rules. She 
said that this would be a more efficient use of the housing that we have available, and she hopes that the 
City Council considers changing the rules to allow this, if it is found to be legal to do so. She said this 
change in the rules could help some people to not be homeless.  
 
James Williamson, 1000 Jackson Place, stated that he did not have any comment prior to viewing the 
presentation by CDD. 
  
Councillor Simmons stated that Public Comment will remain open until 6:00 p.m. 
 
Councillor Simmons invited Chris Cotter to introduce the City team for this hearing. He stated that 
Justine Cabrera and Linda Prosnitz from the Community Development Department were joining in on 
tonight’s meeting, as well as Maura Pensak, the Housing Liaison to the City Manager, and City Solicitor 
Nancy Glowa. He said that they are all happy to continue the conversation. He said that his department 
has spent a long time working on the Inclusionary recommendations with the Affordable Housing Trust, 
and they are pleased to present these recommendations to the Housing Committee tonight and to receive 
feedback. Mr. Cotter said that when thinking about potentially changing preferences, we unavoidably 
advantage some and disadvantage others. He said it is a very challenging thing to do. He said that his 
team has been able to talk and work with feedback they’ve been given in order to revise these 
preferences. He said that the Affordable Housing Trust was building off of what they had previously 
heard from the City Council. Mr. Cotter gave an overview of a PowerPoint presentation titled 
Inclusionary Housing Resident Selection Preferences. (ATTACHMENT B).  
 
As Mr. Cotter wrapped up his presentation, he said that he looks forward to getting comments and 
feedback on this during and following this hearing. He said that the next steps would be for his team to 
put this material into draft standards and procedures for resident selection. He said this would then be 
looked at by the Law Department. He said that they want to expand the documentation requirements for 
residents, that there would be a revised and updated document explaining how we define what a resident 
is and what the City would accept for documentation, and that the CDD has heard from staff, from 
residents, and from the Council that they want to give applicants more choices and opportunities to 
confirm their residency. He said they will put this document together in such a way that is consistent with 
the Ordinance, and then this would be put into a draft form for Public Comment. That Public Comment 
period would need to be at least 30 days, it would be shared with all applicants, with residents, with 
building managers, and with anyone with a stake in the program to solicit their feedback. Following that 
process, the Trust would then review that feedback, process through it into a final draft, which would then 
become effective in changing the preference system.  
 
Councillor Simmons thanked Mr. Cotter and then asked about the “Next Steps” slide of the presentation. 
She asked if the draft recommendations go to the Affordable Housing Trust, then to the Law Department, 
and then back to the Housing Committee before going to the City Council? She said it was not quite clear 

 

 

 

 

to her. Chris Cotter said that there is no formal role for the Affordable Housing Trust in adopting any of 
these changes under the Inclusionary Ordinance. He said that under the Ordinance, it is the Community 
Development Department that has the authority to make these changes, with policy input from the City 
Council. He said that the CDD would draft standards and procedures for the Inclusionary Program, they 
would then put them out for Public Comment for 30 days; following that, the CDD would adapt based on 
the feedback they received, and then the CDD would issue final standards and procedures. He said that 
the next steps are for the Community Development Department to draft, in consultation with the Law 
Department, the document to ensure that it is being responsive to the requested changes, while adhering to 
the law. Mr. Cotter said that the Community Development Department certainly could come back and 
present these proposed final draft changes to the Housing Committee if that is requested. He said that the 
CDD understands the desire for this process to move forward quickly, and that it would likely take at least 
a couple of months. He said that we are currently talking about the general policy approach, but there are 
many details that need to be ironed out as it related to “residents.” Councillor Simmons concurred that it 
would be a good idea to have the CDD come back and present this to the Housing Committee at least one 
more time prior to finalizing it.  
 
Councillor McGovern made a motion to close Public Comment.  
 
The roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
YEAS: 

Councillor Simmons, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor 
McGovern and Councillor Zondervan 
 
 

 
NAYS:  
 
and Public Comment was closed.  
 
Councillor McGovern asked Mr. Cotter to discuss Slide #3, “Number of Applicants.” He asked, of the 
2,322 applicants who are classified as non-resident/non-worker, if we know how many formerly resided 
in Cambridge. Mr. Cotter replied that there is no way to know that, as it is not criteria included in our 
applications. Councillor McGovern said that to get a true sense of the list, in terms of which applicants 
have Cambridge ties, his preference would be to see someone who formerly lived in Cambridge and had 
to move out because of rising rents now have the ability to come back to Cambridge. Regarding the list 
that has the breakdown by unit – which is based on the total of 3,243 applicants – Councillor McGovern 
asked if we know how many of the 921 Cambridge applicants want a 1 bedroom, or a 2 bedroom? Mr. 
Cotter said that we know for the 683 applicants – of those, we have roughly 100 applicants in the 1 
bedroom pool, with the balance evenly split between the 2 and 3 bedroom pool. Councillor McGovern 
said that this is important, because this makes it look like the majority of applicants want a 1 or 2 
bedroom, but if just broken down by Cambridge residents, that may not actually be the case. Mr. Cotter 
responded by saying that in some ways, what’s more readily available can actually drive the applicants, 
using the example that we know 3 bedroom units in this program are rare, and thus we do not see as many 
people applying for 3 bedroom units (because many would-be applicants realize how challenging it would 
be to obtain a 3 bedroom unit and therefore they do not apply for the program).  
 
Councillor McGovern said that, for the Cambridge residents out of that pool of 683 applicants, 100 are 
waiting for a 1 bedroom and the rest are waiting for either a 2 bedroom or a 3 bedroom, and that is a 
different breakdown than what is shown on Slide 3. Councillor McGovern said that on this slide, it looks 
like most applicants are waiting for 1 bedroom units. Mr. Cotter said that this reflects the fact that the 
program is able to serve 1 bedroom applicants more quickly, and we don’t typically get to the non-
Cambridge residents. He said that the program sees the most unmet demand in family sized units. 
Councillor McGovern said that he really wants to prioritize the program for people who are in Cambridge 

-5 

-0 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and have been here, as opposed to applicants with no previous ties to Cambridge and who may never have 
set foot in Cambridge.  
 
In regards to the emergency designation based around homelessness, Councillor McGovern has had to say 
to people who are unhoused and are couch surfing that they must spend a couple nights in a shelter so 
they can qualify as being homeless. He said that it is awful to tell someone that this is what they must do. 
He asked if we have thought about the couch-surfing issue, and is there a way to include those people as 
emergency homeless applicants? Mr. Cotter said that as we think about changes and developing more 
details, the Trust has talked about trying to be more expansive in terms of how homeless applicants are 
looked at. He said that the concern is that it becomes an easy threshold to meet, if we simply take people 
at their word that they’ve been couch surfing, and then everyone now meets this emergency criteria. He 
said that the Trust has talked about looking at expanding the types of resources that they rely on to 
confirm that someone is homeless, such as looking at if they’re working with a service provider, or with a 
social worker.  
 
Councillor McGovern said that he does still worry about the “cliff effect” where someone living in an 
Inclusionary unit has the opportunity to get a raise at work, and if they accept the raise they make just 
enough money to now be just over income, and they no longer qualify for the Inclusionary Housing 
program, but they don’t make enough money to rent a non-subsidized unit, nor enough to buy a unit. He 
asked if there is any way to address that issue, and is it as big an issue as he believes it is. Mr. Cotter said 
that the CDD does see this from time to time, but it is not an overwhelming issue to the extent that it is 
brought to the CDD’s attention. He said that for the home ownership program, there is no ceiling in terms 
of income eligibility once a person has signed on to the program and has purchased a unit. In terms of the 
Inclusionary Rental program, he said that there is a built in cushion in the ordinance for a tenant to remain 
eligible, and to the extent that an Inclusionary tenant’s income extends over 100 percent AMI, which has 
happened on occasion, then CDD works with those people to look at their options, and they have had 
success on a case-by-case basis. Councillor McGovern said that it is important to let people know about 
this, as there may be many cases where it doesn’t reach the attention of the CDD because tenants facing 
that raise that places them just above the income threshold ultimately decide not to take the job, for fear of 
jeopardizing their housing.  
 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler said that, in terms of feedback, he agreed with Councillor McGovern’s 
points in needing to expand how we define homelessness and the documentation that is accepted. He said 
that we must explore giving additional weight to emergency housing needs. He said that we must prevent 
more people from getting priced out of Cambridge. We should also make sure we are increasing 
information to applicants and current participants, and we also need to increase the information to 
applicants about income changes they may experience during their wait. 
 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler asked how the CDD looks at preferences from other affordable housing 
providers in Cambridge, and how changing the Inclusionary preferences can be done to possibly meet the 
needs that are not being met by those other housing providers. For example, he cited that military veterans 
are given the same weighted preference at the Cambridge Housing Authority whether they come from 
Cambridge or whether they applied from out of state; if the veterans preference is already being addressed 
by the CHA, he asked if there might be other preferences that we could be addressing here. Mr. Cotter 
confirmed that some of the emergency criteria is more in line with what the CHA has in their criteria, but 
the CDD has kept some things that CHA does not have. He said the big difference is the preference for 
families with children, and this is not a typical preference that is seen. Mr. Cotter said that, by and large, 
our preference system is about as complex as one will find; in the CHA, you either get local preference or 
you don’t, but in the Inclusionary program there is a graduated approach that is pretty complicated. 
 

Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler asked if there is a way to have a preference for people that grew up in 
affordable housing. Mr. Cotter responded that it is something that has been discussed. He said that most 
residency preferences are either live in or work in the community. He said that moving away from this 
could begin to create questions of fair housing. The advice the CDD has had is to not have preferences 
that require some duration of time, or time limited preference, or something that looks back very far into a 
person’s housing history. He said that the CDD is now looking to include provisions that would include 
former residents. 
 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler said that he would like to think about changes where, if you have a family 
member or friend that you can stay with, but if you grew up in affordable housing and cannot go back to 
your family, it should be addressed. He said that he would be happy to follow up on this thread at a later 
time.  
 
Councillor Zondervan stated that this is a complex problem, and we clearly have a huge need for 
emergency housing. He stated that one of the things that he is seeing are cases where someone who was a 
Cambridge resident 4-5 years ago is now homeless, and how do we better address the needs of these 
people. Mr. Cotter said that in cases of someone who is homeless and whose last permanent address was 
in Cambridge, they would get the benefit of the preference. Councilor Zondervan said that he would 
appreciate an early look at some of the more detailed definitions of “resident” and of “homeless” that 
CDD comes up with. In terms of the point system for emergency housing, Councilor Zondervan said that 
he appreciates the effort into looking into this. He asked if it reasonable to try to increase the weight of 
the homeless preference, in some way. Mr. Cotter responded that the CDD is happy to get the feedback 
on the weighing of the various points, and they want to hear from the City Council on what the priorities 
were. In terms of emergency housing, they have tried to allow the emergency need to surpass the 
preference for veterans and families with children. He said that the question is more about the residency. 
With applicants that are homeless, he said that they try to look at the whole picture. Councillor Zondervan 
said that he appreciates the difficulty of the challenge.  
 
With regards to better serving those with Cambridge ties who are currently homeless, Councillor 
Zondervan mused that there may be a way to better align the CDD’s criteria with the criteria utilized by 
the local shelters to confirm someone as being a Cambridge resident.  
 
Vice Mayor Mallon stated that there are people in emergency situations that could be affected by potential 
changes. Regarding the list that was shown by Mr. Cotter, she said it would be helpful to have it broken 
out by bedroom type and by Cambridge residents versus non-residents. In terms of recently displaced 
former residents, she asked what documentation is going to be needed? Mr. Cotter said that they try to be 
flexible, and they might look at a past lease, a past utility bill, and a range of other options. Vice Mayor 
Mallon asked if the CDD had any idea what additional documentation may be considered in proving 
residency. Mr. Cotter said that they are in the process of discussing how they might expand residency 
documentation, and they are trying to give people more choices in documentation. He said that they might 
consider weighting different documents to provide greater flexibility. He said that CDD has been looking 
to other housing programs and other cities to look at different models, and this is still being developed. 
Vice Mayor Mallon thanked Mr. Cotter for this work so far, and she looks forward to the next part of this 
process.  
 
Mayor Siddiqui said that this has come a long way since June of 2019, and many suggestions of the City 
Council have been incorporated. She said that, with regards to documentation to homelessness, many 
families who are couch surfing are in touch with City departments, such as the Mayor’s Office or the 
Multi Service Center, and she suggests that perhaps we broaden the scope to include people that have 
worked been working with City departments or agencies as proof of homelessness.  
 

Councillor Simmons asked Mr. Cotter, regarding Slide 7: when the CDD is looking at former residents 
who met residency requirements at time of application, are we speaking to those who hold a mobile 
voucher? Mr. Cotter said yes and no. He said that the CDD had recommended, in the last meeting, to 
preserve residency status of any applicant in the program as long as they have an active application. This 
means that if someone lived in Cambridge when they applied to the program, they then are forced out of 
the City, and then their name reaches to the top of the list, they will be still be treated as a Cambridge 
resident because they were a resident at the time of applying. Mr. Cotter said that this is the change that 
CDD thinks will most dramatically affect resident applicants. He said that the second piece involves 
Cambridge residents who are issued a voucher, cannot find a unit in Cambridge, and secure a unit outside 
the City in order to keep their voucher active. Mr. Cotter that the new change being recommended is that 
these people, who have been displaced from Cambridge, would be able to apply for an Inclusionary Unit 
for up to one year after leaving Cambridge and they will still be treated as Cambridge residents, and this 
will be a big boost to giving these people the opportunity to move back to the City.  
 
Councillor Simmons said that she was happy to see the new veteran status. In terms of emergency need, 
she asked where domestic violence survivors fall in these criteria. Mr. Cotter said that on page 10, victims 
of domestic violence are listed. He said that the CDD wants to have the appropriate definitions in place, 
but they have allowed some flexibility for applicants to meet the criteria.  
 
Regarding time-limited transitional housing, Councillor Simmons asked if this housing wouldn’t 
necessarily have to be in Cambridge. Mr. Cotter said that someone living outside of Cambridge would get 
that preference, but would not necessarily get the residency preference. He said that CDD would look at 
the address of the person prior to entering transitional housing. Councillor Simmons said that some 
victims of domestic violence have their address embargoed for safety purposes, and we would not want 
this to be an impediment to their getting housed. Mr. Cotter said that this is something that can be looked 
at when planning out how to establish criteria for that preference.  
 
Councillor Simmons then asked Mike Johnston or Maura Pensak for comments. 
 
Maura Pensak stated that she does not have anything to add, but that she appreciates the work of CDD 
and she appreciates expanding emergency and residency requirements, and recognizing the need of folks 
with children over the age of six having high priority. She looks forward to the next steps of this process.  
 
Mike Johnston stated that Mr. Cotter and his staff have done a great job, he thinks this is a great piece of 
work, and he looks forward to seeing it put in place. 
 
Councillor Simmons thanked Mr. Cotter and his staff, she said that this has been a long time getting to 
this place and she wants this issue to be expedited. She invited the Housing Committee members to put 
into writing any additional questions that they may have and she will have this material forwarded to Mr. 
Cotter.  
 
Councillor Simmons summarized her understanding that Mr. Cotter will now take recommendations and 
thoughts from the Housing Committee and work to update the guidelines, there will then be a 30 day 
period of Public Comment, then this will be brought back to the Housing Committee. She said that having 
a written timeline submitted to the committee would be helpful. Mr. Cotter confirmed that the next steps 
are to take what has been presented tonight and develop draft standards and procedures. He said he will 
share that with the City Council, and the schedule will include a 30 day public review comment process. 
He said that we will want to comply with the ordinance, and this will be mapped out. Councillor 
Simmons asked that Mr. Cotter get a timeline for the standards and procedures and then sit with the 
Housing Committee Co-Chairs to ensure that it fits with the trajectory. She said she would like to receive 

a timeline and then work through and get back to the committee, and Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler 
concurred.  
 
Councillor Simmons thanked the Committee, she said she is excited to move the process forward, and she 
is committed to working as expeditiously as possible to move this along.  
 
Councillor Simmons and Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler thanked all those present for their attendance. 
 
On a motion by Vice Mayor Mallon to adjourn the hearing, the roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
YEAS: 

Councillor Simmons, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor 
McGovern and Councillor Zondervan 
 
 
 

-5 

-0 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
NAYS:  
 
 
And the meeting was adjourned at 7:30 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

For the Committee, 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

________________________________ 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons, Co-Chair 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler, Co-Chair 
Housing Committee 

