ORDINANCE COMMITTEE 
 

COMMITTTEE MEETING 

~ MINUTES ~ 

5:30 PM 

  Thursday, January 30, 2020 

Sullivan Chamber 

  Called to Order at 5:33 PM 

Attendee Name 
Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler 

Patricia Nolan 

Dennis J. Carlone 

Alanna Mallon 

Marc C. McGovern 

E. Denise Simmons 

Sumbul Siddiqui 

Timothy J. Toomey 

Quinton Zondervan 

 

 

Present 

Absent 

Arrived 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Late 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5:50 PM 

6:06 PM 

The Ordinance Committee will meet to reconvene its hearing on the Harvard Square Zoning 
Petition. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  04:13 
Good evening, everyone. A quorum of the Ordinance committee being president I call tonight's 
meeting of Thursday, January 30, 2020 to order. The call of the meeting is that the Ordinance 
committee will meet to reconvene its hearing on the Harvard Square zoning petition. The... we 
will conduct this meeting as all other Ordinance committee meetings. First, we will hear from the 
petitioner... Oh, we're being audio and video recorded. Right. So, we, so this is a, so this is a 
continuation of the previous meeting where we recessed and public comment was closed, so 
there will be no public comment at today's meeting.  We will first hear from Mr. Barrett and then 
have some clarifying questions from councillors, then hear from the city, followed by some 
clarifying questions and then city council discussion. So, without further ado. Yeah, so we will 
go... when we get to the point of... CDD has made some proposed amendments and there's 
other amendments. So, when we get to that section, we'll, we'll, we'll go section by section and 
go through those. But first, I'll turn it over to Mr. Barrett. 
 
Patrick Barrett  05:47 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. City council today was my understanding that we would be spending 
some time looking through amendments that were born out of the Planning Board hearings that 
we had last year, as well as some recommendations that came about for the last Ordinance 
committee hearing. While I am not going to be walking people through my presentation that I did 
the first go round, I think it's important to highlight what changes we've sort of arrived at why we 
arrived at them and what their impact is to the overall petition. First and foremost, the bank 
regulations restrictions in Harvard Square that we had asked for a 20-foot limitation on the 
planning board felt as though that that was too restrictive. And that a something very similar to 
what was done in central square where banks were limited to 25 feet of total all ground floor 
frontage. And a 30% of the overall build, the building seems more reasonable. I think as far as a 
petition, position of the petitioner, I believe on both sides of the fence, whether it be the Harvard 

City of Cambridge 

Page 1 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

Square business associates Or the Harvard Square neighborhood group. There's differences of 
opinion and how that should be perceived. I think this is an unusual scenario where I'm 
representing multiple groups, not my own opinions necessarily. But in terms of their 
understanding of these amendments, I believe that both groups felt as though these, that 
alteration was amenable. However, I think just to understand the impact that once we allow it, 
something to go under a special permit versus a variance, it does give a broader opportunity for, 
for things to go by that they may wish to prevent.  
 
Patrick Barrett  07:48 
I think, given the fact, and I say this is an overarching theme to the entire petition, the fact that 
we have a conservation district with very significant guidelines and that projects are to receive 
something called a certificate of appropriateness for the district that those controls would 
probably be enough to eliminate the more egregious spaces. I will note that in our last meeting, 
we've had several, not several, had two property owners really come with opposition to this one 
piece in terms of it being a variance or a special permit. And that was predominantly because 
they have large frontages that they wish to put banks in which, again, this is kind of what we're 
trying to put the brakes on. And for the only real reason in this will, I'll pivot to cannabis retail in 
a second, to liven up the streetscape. I think the every time Harvard Square kind of pops up in 
the news. It's always about a closure. It's always about something, at least the past six months. 
I think the perception doesn't necessarily match with the reality I think Harvard Square still a 
vibrant, bustling district but banks are predominant presence in the landscape. And that was 
what this is trying to do. To... I think that there is consensus among the groups that willing to 
accept the amendment as proposed by CDD. But I believe that's at the pleasure of the council.  
 
Patrick Barrett  09:16 
Pivoting to cannabis retail. And this was something that the Planning Board felt very strongly 
about was somewhat of a step too far. And predominantly as it related to equity issues. It's 
unfortunate that the state guidelines are what they are. But it's the same that applies to 
everywhere else in the district. I think that, again, I can't speak for the Harvard Square 
neighborhood group and the Business Association even though I'm their conduit here. I think 
that the Harvard Square Business Association is somewhat agnostic in that, in this, in this 
provision of being stricken from the ordinance where the Harvard Square Neighborhood 
Association would prefer to remain intact. If to prevent the proliferation of basically dead spaces 
in the streetscape. The particularly egregious part of that, and I think, I think the real reason why 
I was comfortable in drafting it this way. The current guidelines for E applicants that don't have 
the restriction for buffer zones creates the possibility even the unlikely outcome because there's 
a host agreement, there's still a special permit that they're required to get for the use entirety, 
that multiple stores could take, you know, entire streets away from the ground floor. It seems an 
unlikely outcome and to me, but as the zoning is currently written, that's what would allow for, 
but that's a different issue and not addressed here. As it pertains to the amendment to strike this 
provision. We largely are, I think, we support it and we're against it.  
 
Patrick Barrett  10:52 
Other changes that have been made by the Planning Board and CDD has codified are more 
semantic. I had forgotten to put Arrow street for instance, as a street that was supposed to... I 
had forgotten. I had it in my presentation, but embarrassingly, it was not in my language when I 
presented. In [sic] they struck Harvard street from the expansion of commercial uses on the 
ground floor. We largely agree with all of that. I think the general provision has always been 
there, that it, by a special permit, those uses are allowed anyway, we just allow for some of 
these things to spread into the districts where they currently already are, without as much red 
tape and really only for non-formula businesses, which is really the key to this were trying to 

City of Cambridge 

Page 2 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

expand the commercial footprint to allow for commercial uses. In areas that by definition will be 
less price per square foot will provide more opportunities for small and local retailers because 
the footprints are much smaller anyway. It doesn't change the character of the residential or 
office district they're already and so I think its kind of an interesting side note to say that res... 
commercial uses, retail uses are not currently allowed at the base of an office building which 
just seems to not make much sense. 
 
Patrick Barrett  12:15 
But you know, Cambridge zoning has evolved over time and a lots of things that are where they 
are for different reasons. And we've changed the zoning to the point where sometimes it's hard 
to trace back why, why things are that what they are. The last bit, I believe those are the biggest 
amendments they put forth. I think the rest of it is all more language to explain the desire of the 
council or desire at the Planning, desire the Planning Board in terms of what the 
recommendations were, I believe Councillor Carlone has some other recommendations he 
plans to bring forward. Which we're open to, I think by and large, this entire process has been 
one of communication and transparency, so we'd like to keep, maintain that. I'm happy to 
answer any questions about what's out there right now, if anyone has any. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  13:09 
Thank you. Pleasure of the committee. Any questions for Mr. Barrett? Councillor Carlone. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  13:15 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just for clarification, Mr. Barrett. The proposal to go up to 80 feet and 
maxing out the density is truly subject to the guidelines. The package by the, for the 
Conservation District and subject to the Planning Board's overview with the Historical 
Commission is throughout the whole district, even where there is a lower density zone.  
 
Patrick Barrett  13:56 
So, where the base zoning says that there's a height limitation, you start with the base zoning 
districts height limitation. It's always the lesser number, a... the by right high in the BB district of 
Harvard Square 60 feet.  
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  14:10 
Yes.  
 
Patrick Barrett  14:11 
The special permit height, you need to get the extra 20 feet, you need a special permit for that 
as well. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  14:15 
Yes. 
 
Patrick Barrett  14:16 
So, to answer your question the height doesn't change by way of this petition. It's exactly as it 
currently is in the zoning. The ability to realize that height through a special permit of increased 
FAR is the only real adjustment. So, where the zoning height is 45 feet, you would still be at 45 
feet. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  14:35 
And additional height would be... 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 3 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

Patrick Barrett  14:39 
Only in that scenario. Actually, for a non, for a non-BB district property would be a variance. You 
wouldn't be... 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  14:46 
Okay. Okay, that I just want to say that was not clear and that relieves some of my concern. A 
lot of my concern. 
 
Patrick Barrett  14:56 
Clarity is not where our ordinance excels. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  14:58 
Yes, I, I agree. But it might be a good idea that we summarize that. This is where I'm not saying 
you do, but in the city's efforts, this is what's existing. With the overlay doing... based on your 
proposal, these are of the new heights, and the ones. 
 
Patrick Barrett  15:18 
Well, I just took a point of clarification. I think that new height is not the correct way to describe 
that because... 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  15:26 
Maximum heights. 
 
Patrick Barrett  15:27 
Okay, well, we're not really changing the height. Right? 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  15:30 
That needs to be clear. That's all I'm getting at. It, when I read it, and I've actually asked other 
people their opinion, they thought, indeed, we could go up to 80 feet in the C-2 ,the C-1, 
whatever the districts are. And the fact that you can't, based on your opinion, and hopefully the 
city's, as I said, that makes me feel better about this proposal it That was my major concern. 
 
Patrick Barrett  16:03 
I would, I would offer even further that if it's just, if it's deemed that there is a loophole that I can't 
quite perceive that would allow for this. It is the intent of this petition this only to be realized in 
the BB district of the Harvard Square overlay. That was my understanding of the base height 
requirements in the zoning itself and that we revert back to the base for all the existing districts, 
that the BB alone allowed for the increased height. Similar to actually Central Square. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  16:35 
Just bear with me, Mr. Chair. [sic] I'll stop there. I think there was another question, but I can 
bring it up later. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  16:47 
Councillor Mallon. 
 
Vice Mayor Alanna Mallon  16:50 
Thank you, Mr. Chair through you to Mr. Barrett. I just want to clarify something on 20.54.3 at 
one of the uses that is not allowed is a cannabis retail store, is that correct? 
 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 4 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

Patrick Barrett  17:07 
This refers to the section of the ordinance that allows for the expansion of commercial uses in 
the non-business district, residential and office. Currently, as it is written that cannabis retail 
business would not be allowed in that district, based on this change. 
 
Vice Mayor Alanna Mallon  17:24 
And just to clarify, the entire district or just part of the district. 
 
Patrick Barrett  17:29 
Just, just the residential and office district. 
 
Vice Mayor Alanna Mallon  17:34 
And I'm looking at a zoning map. Is there something specific I should be looking for? When I'm 
looking? 
 
Patrick Barrett  17:40 
I don't know what map you're looking at. Is it in my packet here because I don't have a map with 
me? There's, there's a residential there's, the center... the Harvard Square overlay?  
 
Vice Mayor Alanna Mallon  17:53 
Yes. 
 
Patrick Barrett  17:53 
Is comprised of BB zones. 
 
Vice Mayor Alanna Mallon  17:55 
Correct.  
 
Patrick Barrett  17:55 
Residential zones and office zones. The expansion of commercial uses only applies to the 
residential and office district where they curr... not currently, not allowed. In the criteria of 
restricted uses in that section. There's a lot, there was a laundry list of things you can do. 
Ranging from... 
 
Vice Mayor Alanna Mallon  18:13 
I see them.  A massage establishment also. 
 
Patrick Barrett  18:15 
Yeah, yes, exactly. I think mortuary is one of them. And amongst those restrictions, we've 
included cannabis retail. The reason for that was the, the group's felt as though that opening up 
the ability to allow for retail in these districts presented an opportunity for small local retailers 
that otherwise wouldn't be able to pay a higher rental amount to get into. And that if we allowed 
for cannabis retail to enter these zones, they're able to pay almost the equivalent of what banks 
pay, in terms of price per square foot and that even an EE applicant or a group like that would 
still, would outmatch and outpace those kind of retail opportunities. And that given the likelihood 
that there's probably not going to be more than two or three cannabis retail spaces in Harvard 
Square, there's two now and maybe there's a third one on its way. That this seemed like a 
decent enough carve out for those other retailers that once, you know a [sic] closes or these 
other small places close that there are opportunities that are really exclusive to them. 
 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 5 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

Councillor Alanna Mallon  19:26 
So, thank you. So, okay, so in the BB districts, they will be allowed. I think we're in a very 
unchartered territory with cannabis locations since there's slated to be four in Central square at 
this moment.  
 
Patrick Barrett  19:39 
That is correct.  
 
Councillor Alanna Mallon  19:39 
So, I think saying that two is probably the cap and Harvard Square, we don't know that. 
 
Patrick Barrett  19:44 
We don't know it. I'm just saying that I think there's two now there might be a third one in the 
way. I don't know the exact count. But what I do know is that when you're talking about the 
competitiveness between a, call it a hard retail use, versus a Cannabis retail or a bank, it's very 
difficult for them to compete for those kinds of spaces. And as a landlord, you will probably 
always try to grab the highest and best paying tenant in that by allowing for the residential and 
office zone to restrict cannabis retail, you open up the opportunity for smaller retailers to actually 
have enough to be able to not be out priced. 
 
Councillor Alanna Mallon  20:26 
Okay, thank you. That's all for now. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  20:29 
Councillor Zondervan. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  20:32 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. Is this the amended language that's before us? 
 
Patrick Barrett  20:37 
So, what has been presented to you from the CDD is a memo that codifies by way of individual 
amendment, each section that the Planning Board and that the Ordinance committee, through 
our last discussion arrived at as potential changes to the ordinance. So, there is no complete 
document right now where you have a sort of like a selection of things that were highlighted as 
amendments to this zoning petition that everyone agreed on and the Planning Board or either 
everyone agreed on or the Planning Board recommended. And the position of both the Harvard 
Square neighborhood group and the Harvard Square Business Association, is that they will 
follow the will of the Planning Board. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  21:20 
So, you're planning to submit a new amended petition. 
 
Patrick Barrett  21:25 
This petition is currently in the hands of the Ordinance committee. And if the ordinance 
committee by way of a vote may amend it now. I am not able to amend the petition any further. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  21:37 
So let me, Clerk and I consulted. So, what we're going to do once we get through this round of 
questions here from the city, get through that we're going to go through section by section and 
adopt, or not, the amendments that are in this, in this document. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 6 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

Councillor Quinton Zondervan  21:53 
Right, so I guess, I guess there's a point of order. I'm still confused. What amendments? Do we 
have amendments before us? 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  22:03 
So, the amendment in the, in the, in the documents page in the packet, I guess its page 24 
starts on, and this is the... from Ms. Farooq. What you see highlighted in gray are the changes. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  22:32 
Right. So, this is an amended petition? 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  22:35 
Mr. Clerk. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  22:38 
Through the Chair. What you have before you in your agenda packets are, number one, the 
original petition and then starting on page 24 is the submission from CDD, a communication 
from the community development department regarding recommended changes of language 
from that department. My understanding of, from having discussed this with the chair is that at 
the conclusion of hearing from the petitioner, and then hearing from representatives of the city, 
the city council will then go through the documents starting on page 25 section by section, and 
then will be voting on whether or not to adopt those language changes.  
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  23:18 
Got it. Thank you. So, you mentioned the 20-foot frontage for banks, but that's still in here. 
 
Patrick Barrett  23:29 
So, the, I guess it... 
 
Mayor Marc McGovern  23:33 
Into the mic. 
 
Patrick Barrett  23:34 
Yeah, I'm on the page. So, on page 233. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  24:02 
Right. 
 
Patrick Barrett  24:03 
You have the section 20.54.9 which has the section that we offered as part of the amendment 
stricken through. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  24:16 
Got it and then  
 
Patrick Barrett  24:19 
Below that is the amended language.  
 
 
 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 7 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

Councillor Quinton Zondervan  24:20 
Right. And then on the cannabis retail store. So, this is back to Councillor Mallon's question, just 
so I understand the, if you didn't have this restriction, would cannabis retail store be allowed in 
this zone or not? 
 
Patrick Barrett  24:45 
In the residential and office district, I believe they are not allowed. It's only in the BBB A's one 
through three. This restriction is duplicative and probably more of a reminder than an actual 
significant change to the district by it removed it, it would have almost no impact. If the law were 
to be amended down the road, cannabis retail, we expanded it to different kinds of districts, like 
I think Office 1 is kind of a curious one. Because to me office, an office district and a business 
district, to me are almost indistinguishable. And I think by and large from our planning and 
Envision, and any of the report we've done, mixed use seems to be the direction we're headed. 
But if those things were to change, that the overlay remained the same, that this provision would 
be helpful. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  25:44 
Right. Just so I'm clear, as it's currently written, it's not an additional restriction, in fact. Thank 
you. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  25:57 
Any further questions for Mr. Barrett?  Yes, in the I'm sorry, I do have one in. And that's helpful. 
Because I was concerned about that restriction on cannabis as well. I'm, we're going to get into 
comments later and things. So, I have a little bit to say about that. But in that same section are 
we, are banks going to be not allowed and in that area?  
 
Patrick Barrett  26:25 
So financial institutions as a use in their residential or office district, I believe in residential, they 
are definitely restricted in office use. I'd have to refer to my, my good friend Jeff Roberts. I 
believe they are also restricted. This was... the bank provision is really for the areas where is 
currently allowed. So, like I don't... there's no you still need a variance to have a bank and an 
office in a residential district, which it seems unlikely something that anyone would issue. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  26:56 
So, okay, so we can maybe find out from Mr. Roberts Because if again, if the goal... 
 
Patrick Barrett  27:02 
Yeah. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  27:03 
If the concern is cannabis is going to be able to pay more per square foot for rent, therefore, we 
should take this special, you know, action. 
 
Patrick Barrett  27:10 
Right. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  27:10 
The same would be true about banks. And so... 
 
 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 8 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

Patrick Barrett  27:12 
I think in there in the, the residential and the office district because they are operating within the 
overlay. I like just to make things as clear as I could possibly make them in terms of what's 
allowed and what's not allowed. So, I think by enumerating the use, you make a very clear 
distinction, even if at some point in time, someone were to seek a variance for say that there's 
actual explicit exclusion for that use is a pretty compelling argument as to why they should not 
be issued. In the terms of financial institution. I think I'm less concerned about a group bringing 
a variance to a residential district for a bank ever being pushed through the BZA versus 
cannabis retail. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  27:53 
So, so if we if we specifically. If we specifically saying, no cannabis in that, in that part of the 
district and no banks? Are there other businesses that would, could pay a higher, for rent per 
square foot that we also have to? I mean, it seems like, it seems like, it seems like there's a few 
things in here that are specifically going after cannabis in particular, which I don't think is right. 
But I mean, what... Are there other types of businesses that, if the, if the reason is, oh, they can 
pay more per square foot and by excluding them we lift someone who can pay less, have an 
opportunity. What other industries should we be... 
 
Patrick Barrett  28:36 
So, I also included a catch all, formula businesses are also prohibited from going into the 
residential and office district. While I can't predict what is today or tomorrow, it seems that a 
formula business regulation restriction for this particular district is appropriate for a bunch of 
different reasons. One is yes, they will be able to outpace our local retailers and people who are 
not our non-formulaic businesses. And two, in terms of keeping with look and feel and 
represent... and respecting the residential aspect of this, I think there's something to be said for 
design controls. That's really all formula business regulation is. It's not like you can say, you 
know, Dunkin Donuts, you can't come here, you just have to say, Dunkin Donuts, you can come 
here, but you have to look like you fit into the district. It seemed appropriate to put that caveat in 
there because the formula business regulations in Massachusetts don't really have much teeth. 
They just are design guidelines essentially designed to give larger corporate entities who have a 
more difficult time adjusting to require changes. You know, they see the opportunity but to put 
them on a different path than say a local retailer who is likely to fit into the space. Also bear in 
mind That it's in the Harvard Square overlay, still has to deal with the other layers of regulation. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  30:07 
Thank you. Further questions for Mr. Barrett at this time? Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler.  
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler  30:11 
Thank you. Where did the petition land with removing the required payment for weaving parking 
and loading requirements? 
 
Patrick Barrett  30:18 
So, the CDD memo that was sent to the Ordinance committee and to the council, I think is been 
left to the pleasure of the council. In terms of Harvard Square in Central Square, the only 
districts that have this provision, it doesn't really serve the intended purpose. It certainly doesn't 
comport to, at least our modern understanding of where urban planning is going. And that, 
really, it's up to the council to decide whether this is an appropriate provision they would 
maintain, whether it's actually doing what it's supposed to do. Or if it's just another layer of 
prohibition on development that makes it more problematic than not. In terms of, I think that's 
what that's how they left it in the memo. Between the groups, I think what I would say amongst 

City of Cambridge 

Page 9 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

the neighborhood group and the Business Association, that the document itself represents, at 
least from between my apart over a year of tedious negotiation and discussion with the 
conservation district and what people would find appropriate. And that each piece of this 
represents a little give and take between all the groups. And that the reason why our hearings 
have gone the way they have in terms of there's been very little outcry, very little condemnation 
of this because that work had been done prior. And that, by and large, each piece of this is 
important to a certain group of people and that together the document represents that 
negotiated work and that pieces are pulled apart, then doesn't really come accomplish the goal? 
I think like I told the groups in part in Central square, ages ago it seems now. That the zoning 
really isn't the piece that gets us to a better place to Harvard Square, it's the culture and that by 
doing this like we didn't Harvard, Central Square and we need to do a lot more in Central 
Square, by the way began to change that allowed us to do things like we did in Central Square. 
And we see the positive impacts with that is the hope that this process does something similar. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  32:32 
Anything for Mr. Barrett? Councillor Carlone. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  32:36 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. I found the... I have the old... On page 13 of the new package tonight. 
Under the last at the bottom it says additional FAR. And this is what confused me, and I'll read 
it. It short. Upon the issuance of a special permit, the special permit granting authority may 
increase the allowable FAR on any lot or portion of a lot located within the Harvard Square 
overlay district. Well, that includes multiple zoning districts, for any residential use in Section 
4.31, or any commercial use section 4.34, 4.35 provided the use and design complies with the 
goals and the design guidelines set forth and the Harvard Square Conservation District. So, as I 
read that, and it might be a misquote, that says any district and not what I thought you said 
earlier and what you said earlier, I totally agree with. That it shouldn't be the buffer zones, at 
least at that height may be modified height. 
 
Patrick Barrett  33:56 
What page are you on? I'm sorry. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  33:58 
In the package, just say handed out. The black and white package. It's page 13. Page nine of 
your submittal but it's page 13 in the big package. Lower right-hand corner says 13. it's 20.54.7. 
And reading that, that's different than what we discussed a moment ago and why I was 
confused. 
 
Patrick Barrett  34:30 
No and I know, No  I can see why you are confused because I think that the intent of this was to 
caps... encapture the allowed uses within the districts themselves. And that I might be I might be 
leaning a little too heavily on Charlie here in terms of reliance.  
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  34:49 
No, this says, FAR... 
 
Patrick Barrett  34:54 
It says FAR but I also have the sit... you know complies the goals and design guidelines [sic]. I 
think it is important for clarity to specify that this belongs exclusively in the BB district. 
 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 10 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

Councillor Dennis Carlone  35:09 
Thank you. I agree. And I thought that's what you said earlier. And I wanted to clarify. 
 
Patrick Barrett  35:15 
That's the intent. That's how it was. That's how it came about its not intended to pierce those 
other districts. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  35:21 
So, if I could continue, Mr. Chair? The retail exemption for ground floor retail, I can't agree more 
with this than anything else in here. I agree with that approach. But if you're in the BB district, it 
doesn't really mean much. Unless as we, you and I discuss we make it a criteria that, to what 
extent are there small-scale retail spaces on the first floor for the Planning Board and, for that 
matter, Historical Commission to approve it? 
 
Patrick Barrett  35:58 
This was a tricky provision Include into this package because Harvard Square is, like all 
Cambridge, unique. The overlay itself, the map is difficult to work with. It's a very amorphous 
large space that covers multiple zones, unlike Central Square, which is essentially a corridor. I 
think, Charlie, I think the first concern raised by historical is what happens as people try to chop 
up storefronts and how do we prevent this from happening? Some of the recommendations in 
the business association was that we use linear footage as opposed to actual square footage 
space.  
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  36:35 
I agree with that.  
 
Patrick Barrett  36:36 
I'm not, I don't agree or disagree. I think that's a fine way to delineate in terms of its impact, 
because this is a provision that sort of encompasses the overlay. I kind of like to give, at least 
when I, when I recommend different zoning to different groups of people and they're trying to 
create a different form for an area, multiple options, multiple directions that could take a project 
to allow for them to achieve the intent. This ground floor retail exemption has worked, so far 
pretty well in Central Square. I see it having a similar impact in Harvard Square. But again, I 
don't know, I don't know exactly how that's going to turn out. The again, the only thing that really 
give me any kind of solace in any of this was that we have multiple levels of engagement in 
terms of certificates of appropriateness being given by the Historical Commission and other 
layers of review that they'd have to go through before they actually wound up at the Planning 
Board. 
 
Patrick Barrett  37:36 
But in terms of the BB district, there will be, there'll be, there will be buildings that are already 
non-conforming, that are already maxed at the FAR where this provision could help 
immeasurably. In terms of getting you out, getting yourself out of a variance and into a place of 
compliance. How, again like this is a little bit unpredictable in terms of how that will be used. But 
I think given the fact that we do have that review piece from the Historical Commission, you're 
not going to see someone present to you a proposal where they're cutting a window and half in 
order to make this work.  
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  38:18 
Is it, was it primarily for 0-2 district and the... I dawned on me that it could be beyond the BB 
were its... 

City of Cambridge 

Page 11 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

 
Patrick Barrett  38:28 
I wanted it to apply to all districts because I think especially in the "res" an 0-2 district where you 
have less form, that that flexibility might be much more useful because those buildings to would 
also be non-conforming. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  38:39 
Great. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  38:41 
Thank you. If there's nothing further from Mr. Barrett, don't go anywhere though, we'll ask the 
city to come up and to present. You might want to stay there in case... He's on the bench? 
Okay. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  39:07 
Mr. Chair could we have Mr. Sullivan join the table. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  39:10 
Absolutely anyone from... 
 
Jeffrey Roberts, Director of Zoning and Development  39:24 
Thank you, Mr. Chair.  
 
Mayor Marc McGovern  39:26 
Your batting leadoff Mr. Roberts? 
 
Jeffrey Roberts, Director of Zoning and Development  39:28 
I'm going to kick it off. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Jeff Roberts, Director of zoning development since 
the, this is the second hearing on this, since the previous hearing, our team worked on doing a, 
in the material you have which you've been talking about a little bit for the past little while, I'll try 
to present. it incorporates the, first, on the first page of summary of some of the discussion that 
occurred at the last meeting, which lays out some of the broader issues that the Planning Board 
suggested in their recommendation but didn't necessarily have specific recommendations 
about. And then on the following pages, the zoning text, which if you look at that particular 
document, you'll see that what we've attempted to do is to take the zoning, the text of the 
original zoning petition, which was shown as a unformatted document, and show that in a 
markup format, so that it's possible to see where the original petition amends the current section 
20.50 for the Harvard Square overlay district. And in addition to those changes from the original 
petition shows the changes that were recommended by the planning board, so You see all the 
changes together in one document and if you have keen eyesight, you would see that the 
original petition changes either have a single underline or a single strike through and additional 
changes from the Planning Board have a double underline or a double strike through. Hopefully 
that's readable in your version. Just stepping back a second, I wanted to make one note one 
things is the first ordinance committee meeting of the year. Often in the past, I've referred to our 
team working on these things, and I'm often just referring to myself but I actually have with me, 
some members of my team that I just introduced quickly, so Sarah Scott, in in the red, you've 
seen before and she's been doing a lot of the work on this petition and more recently, Daniel 
Messplay to her right is senior zoning manager. So, I'm no longer just referring to myself. The... 
so with that, back to this document, so just to very quickly walk through, again, some of these 
are changes that you've already been discussing. But to go through them a little bit more 
thoroughly. On... And you'll have to excuse me, I don't have the same packet you have in front 

City of Cambridge 

Page 12 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

of me, but I have the document that we numbered is page one to 10 through page 10 to 10. Is 
that does that appear on your version? 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  42:32 
So, Mr. Roberts here's, see what my colleagues think, as opposed to you going through... we're 
going to go through all of these amendments anyway because we have to vote on them. Maybe 
we should and maybe have Mr. Barrett get back to the table and we should just start going 
through them. If people have questions about them then you can explain them having you go 
through them once and then us go through them again. Seems... kind of seems... 
 
Jeffrey Roberts, Director of Zoning and Development  43:01 
At your disposal Mr. Chair. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  43:02 
Folks feel about... any issues with that? 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  43:07 
Okay, so why don't, why don't we Why don't we do that and then we can take, then people can 
just ask questions as we go through. So, I'm sure there's a lot of these are going to be pretty 
simple and some will be more complicated. So, if we turn to page one, packet, packet, page 25 
at section 20.51. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  43:37 
The, the changes that are being recommended is to strike the word "and" after "Harvard Square 
overlay district", and then after "Harvard Square Historic overlay district" add, ", and Harvard 
Square Conservation District goals and guidelines", excuse me, and this was suggested by the 
Historical Commission staff that noted the goals as well as the guidelines of the Conservation 
District should be referenced. Is there any question as to why that change was made or any 
issue with that, or can we vote that now? Okay, good. Do you have a question? No. So on 
adoption of those amendments, all those in favor say "aye". Those opposed "nay". The ayes 
have it. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  44:34 
Hold on one second. 
 
Patrick Barrett  44:38 
Mr. Chair? 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  44:38 
Mr. Barrett. 
 
Patrick Barrett  44:41 
In our discussion, Councillor Carlone and I discussed an amendment that is not currently in this 
packet. I think it's an important one... 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  44:51 
Is, is it next I mean, I'm going to [sic] when I get to it speak up, jump up and down, raise your 
hand? Okay. So, then the next amendment is on the page 26, 20.53.3 and it comes in 2, under 
2(B) at the end, "significant building as defined by the City of Cambridge demolition ordinance" 
and this is striking number 965. On adoption. All those in favor say "aye"? Those opposed 
"nay"? The ayes have it.  

City of Cambridge 

Page 13 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

 
Councillor Marc McGovern  45:31 
We now go to 20.54.1 (C) and this is to add, add "C" and it reads "to support local businesses 
and uses that enhance the vibrancy and historical nature of Harvard Square with the 
aspirational goal of maintaining a 70% local and non-formula retail experience throughout the 
district". Councillor Carlone. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  46:01 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. I don't know if this number is ground floor, or this is district wide. The 
garage, of course says small retail on the second level. It's wonderful. But it seems to me the 
public domain is the key. And if this percentage is different, and I know people know what that 
percentage is, maybe not right now, it should be the ground floor and adding the words "at 
ground floor". 
 
Patrick Barrett  46:31 
To... 
 
Patrick Barrett  46:34 
Through you, Mr. Chair. I have absolutely no objection to that, the only thing that I would point 
out is that currently the Harvard Square overlays around 70% non-formulaic retail and the 
distinction really comes as a part of the advisory board’s recommendations. So even though we 
have these provisions in here, the advisory board is, their opinions are advisory in nature, they 
can only give guidance to the Planning Board. The only real reason they ever come up is when 
the Planning board Disagrees with the findings of the advisory board. But to your point, it fully 
comports with the intent. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  47:13 
So, Mr. Chair, I, if I could continue I, I think the aspiration is true, but it might be good to know 
what the actual ground floor may be in parentheses as a guide, and I'm guessing it's close to 
that but it, it is that public edge that most people see, we want them to go into the garage, but if 
they don't know it they won't go in, but and that... it's a minor thing, but I would add, make sure 
to get that information at ground floor. 
 
Patrick Barrett  47:48 
So, is the suggestion to change from 70% ground floor local and non-formulaic retail 
experiences? Yes. I have no objection. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  47:59 
So, your... I'm going to go to Councillor Siddiqui in a second.  So Councillor Carlone you're 
amending... 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  48:05 
Yes, I am. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  48:05 
Tell me where and what exactly. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  48:07 
Just Mister... Mr. Barrett's back mentioned maintaining... Well, I would put it at the end 
throughout the district under C, "at the ground floor level" at the end of that sentence. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 14 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

Councillor Marc McGovern  48:25 
Okay. Councillor Siddiqui. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  48:30 
Mayor, sorry.  
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  48:33 
Sorry. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  48:34 
No worries. No worries. So, this is something I had a question about.  When I read to support 
local businesses, where are we define local, right, I think what I'm confused by is, where's that 
definition coming from and how are we defining it? Where is it somewhere did, I miss it? 
 
Patrick Barrett  48:55 
So right now, we don't define local as much as we defined formula ,formulaic. So, in the 
definition of Formula it references national, things like that. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  49:07 
Okay, just want to be clear because we, there's so much stuff that's thrown away, thrown out 
about chains and even small business. What a small business can be. I could you know, you 
can have up to 500 employees, right, there's all these different decisions. So, I just wanted to... 
 
Patrick Barrett  49:23 
Unfortunately, in zoning, it's a thin line to start pointing out local retail specifically. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  49:31 
Okay. Thank you. 
 
Mayor Marc McGovern  49:33 
Councillor Zondervan. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  49:35 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. Through you. I guess I don't quite understand the point of adding this 
language. I mean, what, what happens if the district it goes down to 50% local and non-formula 
is however we define that, what would this accomplish? 
 
Patrick Barrett  49:54 
So, the advisory board itself provides a report to the Planning Board. The Planning Board then, 
as it's written in zoning is supposed to look at this report, say that the district was... had declined 
to less than they desired. That the advisory committee's recognition of this and they're either, I 
guess in this case, let's say they disapprove of the project, the Planning Board can look at the 
special permit criteria. And typically, 10.43 there's somewhat broad parameters that can fulfill to 
you know we think the language will usually be granted. But in this case, they can look at their 
advisory board recommendations and say, Oh, we are not fulfilling the goals, this comes as a 
negative recommendation, they can use that opinion to essentially reject a special permit. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  50:48 
Okay, so first, we need to vote on Councillor Carlone's amendment which is to add after at the 
end after "district", "at the ground floor level". All those in favor say "aye". Those opposed "nay". 
The ayes have it. Now on the... adding C as amended. All those in favor say "aye". Those 

City of Cambridge 

Page 15 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

opposed "nay". The ayes have it. Next is very simple, hopefully, it's just changing C to D since 
we added a new, a new section. All those in favor say "aye". Those opposed "nay". The ayes 
have it. We now move down to number two in that section. And the amendment is to strike, 
"may wish to receive advice and recommendations". And then to add, "has planned for the 
overlay the committee shall meet on an approximately monthly basis or with as much frequency 
as", strike "deemed required", add "needed", "to address pertinent issues in the Harvard Square 
overlay district with the schedule to be determined at the discretion of the chair". This was 
requested... put forward by the Planning Board. Mr. Robert. 
 
Jeffrey Roberts, Director of Zoning and Development  52:11 
I think this is the first point I'll just sort of jump in to briefly explain that there was a, the 
amendment in the original petition, the Planning Board commented that it didn't seem clear 
exactly how the schedule would be determined. And so they recommended it be modified so 
that it would be clear that there's an approximate sense of when the meeting would meet, but to 
make it clear who would be determining the schedule and in this case, we suggested that the 
chair should be the final say on when the committee would meet. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  52:45 
Any questions? Seeing none, all those in favor say "aye". Those opposed "nay" the ayes have 
it. We now flip to page 28. And we go to down to number 4(A)(1). 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  53:04 
And then it is to strike the word "one" and to add "two members", and then it reads having 
recognized qualification as an architect, and then to add ", attorney who specializes in zoning, 
urban planner, architectural historian". Questions? None. On adoption. All those in favor say 
"aye". Those opposed "nay". The ayes have it and then move to number two, and that is to 
strike number two in its entirety. All those in favor say "aye". Those opposed "nay". The ayes 
have it. We now moved on to add a new number two, "one member who operates a" and then 
the addition will be "non-formula business within the Harvard Square overlay district". All those 
in favor say "aye". Those opposed "nay". The ayes have it. We now move to what was number 
four, which will now be number three, is to strike the word "two" and add the word "one". All 
those in favor say "aye". Those opposed "nay". The ayes have it. We now move to what was 
number five, which is now number four. That is to strike "five members representing residents of 
the five abutting Cambridge residential neighborhoods" and to add "four residents living within a 
half mile of the Harvard Square overlay". All those in favor say "aye". Those opposed "nay". The 
ayes have it. Next move down to what was number six and is now number five. That would 
strike "one additional resident to be appointed with should serve at large" and to add "one 
member representing the Harvard Square neighborhood association or neighborhood group 
representing Harvard Square and registered with the City of Cambridge". All those in favor. 
Councillor Simmons. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  55:08 
Just a clarifying question. It's a definitional one. I lost my place this... 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  55:18 
Under number four.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  55:19 
And registered with the City of Cambridge, what does that mean? 
 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 16 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

Councillor Marc McGovern  55:24 
Mr. Robert?  
 
Jeffrey Roberts, Director of Zoning and Development  55:26 
Well... 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  55:27 
The neighborhood associations registered. 
 
Jeffrey Roberts, Director of Zoning and Development  55:29 
This is something that was pointed out in some of the staff comment. The Planning Board, I 
don't think had any particular concern with this, but staff didn't know that there is not a 
registration process for neighborhood groups. Typically, the way the Community Development 
Department addresses neighborhood groups, they are, you know, they're formed in their 
independent of the city. If a neighborhood group contacts the city and wants to be listed among 
the various neighborhood groups, we will list them and have contact in information for them so 
that, for instance, a proponent, a business owner who's trying to open a business and wants to 
meet with a neighborhood group, they can see who to contact. But I wouldn't describe it as a 
formal registration process. It's more of a notification process for the city.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  56:15 
So, through you, Mr. Chair, it's more of "and is known by the city" as opposed to just saying you 
are one.  Is that what you're trying to say? There's no poi... I never knew that we had a 
registration process for a neighborhood association. So that's what that makes the language 
odd to me. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  56:28 
Would it make more sense to say recognized as opposed to registered or listed by the City of 
Cambridge? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  56:36 
Through you Mr. Chair. If you're not... if... We're setting up... It looks like you're setting up a 
criteria that doesn't exist. And if we're going to have it, then you have to have it for every one so 
now we are going to have a neighborhood association registration process, which may not be a 
bad thing, but if we don't have it, right then why is it in here as something sort of acknowledges 
something that doesn't exist? You know, if we don't have a criteria of through whichever 
Neighborhood Association registers itself, then why is it in here, but we may have a process 
through which we recognize in Neighborhood Association. If it's for the purpose of whoever is 
accessing this document to know that they have at least made some contact with the city and 
we know that they exist, that you might want to finesse the language a little bit. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  57:21 
Mr. Barrett. 
 
Patrick Barrett  57:23 
Just a point of clarification on this point. While there is no specific process for registering 
neighborhood groups, they do often register with the City of Cambridge so that they can be put 
on lists when projects come into the area. Part of the problem, I say problem. One of the things 
we're trying to address is the particip... participation among these neighborhood groups in this 
process, and that even though there's not a specific process to register, that's kind of a half-truth 
in that you can register with the city and we're hoping that this provides the impetus to do so. 

City of Cambridge 

Page 17 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  58:00 
Through you Mr. Chair to Mr. Barrett. I understand where you're coming from. The problem I 
have is the word registered. Because we don't, registered is a little bit more formal, then being 
known by and I don't say that there isn't a problem being registered. It's, it kind of lifts up a 
group to a status that doesn't quite exist. I mean, it's just difficult language. Is that the hill I'm 
going to die on? No. But I'm just I raised that to say the Port, the Port doesn't have a registered 
Neighborhood Association. You know, it's just a diff [sic]. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  58:35 
That would make me.  Through you Mr. Chair, I'd be more comfortable with that.  
 
Patrick Barrett  58:35 
If the language read one member renting the Harvard Square neighborhood association or 
neighborhood group representing Harvard Square period [sic]. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  58:49 
Let me go to Mayor Siddiqui. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  58:50 
I think that makes sense. And one, just wanted to add that on today's website, you have a list of 
the neighborhood organizations and so I think, I think this makes sense. But if you're listed in 
that, and that's pretty clear, so listed with the City of Cambridge, but I’m in favor of the former 
over what you just suggested, making it clear. Thanks. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  59:15 
Okay, so the question we first have to vote to strike... Is there a motion to amend this section to 
strike "and registered with the City of Cambridge" by Councillor Simmons. On that amendment, 
all those in favor say "aye". Those opposed "nay". The ayes have it. On number five as 
amended. All those in favor say "aye". Those opposed "nay". The ayes have it. We now move to 
what was number seven now number six and it’s to strike "one member representing an 
institution owning institutional property in the Harvard Square overlay district". Councillor 
Carlone. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  59:57 
It's the same wording as what we're striking. Maybe a word is missing? Or is that a typo? I'm 
only raising and in case something's missing. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  60:09 
You are correct. It does seem to be exactly the same. Mr. Roberts. 
 
Jeffrey Roberts, Director of Zoning and Development  60:13 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. So, this is another situation where the formatting is, is important. So the, 
the original petition suggested striking "one member representing an institution owning 
institutional property in Harvard Square overlaid districts" and I believe added the set, the 
above, earlier in the list one member from Harvard University, the Planning Board's 
recommendation was to reverse that change and go back to the original language, finding that it 
wasn't appropriate to single out a particular institution within the zoning ordinance. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  60:51 
So... Councillor Zondervan. 

City of Cambridge 

Page 18 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  60:54 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. Through you the language does seem a little bit redundant, Institution 
owning institutional property. 
 
Jeffrey Roberts, Director of Zoning and Development  61:06 
I can, I guess address that. So, this is the original language. So, I can't actually speak to how it 
was drafted, but it is, it is the case that institutions sometimes own non-institutional property. An 
institution like Harvard or MIT may own commercial property or residential property. It may be is 
belaboring the point to have that both in the sentence, but it is accurate, if we want it to be an 
institution that has an actual institutional presence in Harvard Square rather than an institution 
that might just own commercial property. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  61:48 
Okay, thank you. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  61:50 
So, the question comes on striking was number seven. And then... We'll do that first. All those in 
favor say aye. Those opposed nay. The ayes have it. And then to add the language back as 
number six. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed nay. The ayes have it. And then next in 
this section is to change the number eight to number seven. All those in favor say aye. Those 
opposed nay. The ayes have it. 
 
Mayor Marc McGovern  62:22 
We now go to B and the amendment is to add on an annual basis is the first meeting in 
September the Harvard Square advisory strike board ad committee will strike appoint elected 
chair who may serve no more than two years as Chair within a three-year period. And questions 
on adoption. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed nay. The ayes have. Now flip to page 
29. We go down to 20.54.3 Number one, to add any retail use 4.35 allowed in business be 
zoning districts within the overlay may also be allowed as of right in any office or residential 
zone within the overlay provided the structure that contains the use has a main entrance on 
Massachusetts Avenue, Mount Auburn Street, strike Harvard Street, add Arrow street or Bow 
street for... period for all other lots, and then at the bottom to strike or findings made. 
Questions? On adoption, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed nay. The ayes have it. Now 
go to B, 1(b) which is to strike "and will not involve significant new construction". Those in favor 
say aye. Those opposed nay. the ayes have it. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  63:56 
This is the... This is the section that we spoke a lot before. And we were asking clarifying 
questions and not so much statements. But I do. I just do want to reiterate that I do think that 
you know, I... given what Mr. Barrett said that cannabis establishments are not allowed there 
anyway. I'm at, that put me a little bit at ease, but I do. You know, I do have some concern 
about where that's going to lead. 
 
Patrick Barrett  64:23 
Through you, Mr. Chair, I think the concern could be put to rest by striking it. If you feel as 
though at some point in time, that if this were to be altered in a significant way that this could be 
addressed or should be addressed.  
 
 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 19 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

Councillor Marc McGovern  64:43 
Yeah. I mean, I think that you know, if you, one of the things Mr. Barrett, that you mentioned in 
the presentation was this was also to help local businesses and I think if you look at certainly 
the EE applicants that have applied to open in Cambridge, a lot of them are local people. You 
know, their, it's, their, it's cannabis. But there are people that are, who live in this community and 
their local people. It's a local business. So, you know, that does kind of, again, I think, and we'll 
get to the other part about striking around the frontage. You know, I think this council spent and 
extraordinary amount of time on the zoning, forget the whole conversations around EE versus 
medical and all that, just on the zoning and one of the things that we overwhelmingly voted for is 
to make sure that cannabis establishments are able to open throughout the city and no other 
square has these kinds of protections or these kinds of hurdles in it, you know, as was noted by 
Councillor Mallon. Four our opening in Central and that actually, you know, given what the 
decision in the lawsuit that just came down and where that goes revolutionary clinics which is 
medical could also do it. That could be the fifth. There are two going into, at least two applying 
for Porter square. And so, you know, we are giving certain, we are making it more difficult to for 
them to open in Harvard Square, which is not something that any other square has, that we've 
done anywhere else in the in the city. And in fact, we voted to make it city wide for a reason. So, 
it just, it doesn't totally sit well with me. 
 
Patrick Barrett  66:25 
Point of clarification. So, the use is already not allowed in these districts have also a special 
permit requirement throughout the city. So, it's not really putting any more undue burden than it 
was already present for that. I do agree that the other provision dealing with frontage, and not 
allowing cannabis retail in the BB district that has that component is a much more stringent 
provision that exists anywhere else in the city. And I think that was the thing that the Planning 
Board had the biggest issue with relative to equity in a cannabis retail, not this particular 
provision. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  66:58 
Yeah, we'll get, we'll get there. So now we will flip to page 30. And the first amendment is to 
strike section I. Questions? On adoption. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed nay. The 
ayes have it. Next, the next amendment is to change from j to i. All those in favor say aye. 
Those opposed nay. The ayes have it. The next amendment is to change K to J. And to add, 
"the use is not a formula business". Questions? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed nay. 
The ayes have it. The next amendment is to change l to K and to strike, the proposed use is not 
located in a base residence C to B or office to district. And then it will read the following users 
listed in Section 4.35 are however specifically prohibited. And then the amendment goes further 
to strike 4.35(e), 4.35(f), 4.35(g). Questions? On adoption all those in favor say aye. Those 
opposed nay. The ayes have it. The next amendment also under K is to add 4.35(s) cannabis 
retail store. That's what we're already talking about. All those in favor say aye. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  68:53 
Mr. Roberts, if you could... No, I'm sorry. So, the if you flip back to number one it says anything 
allowed in business be zoning district within the overlay may also be allowed as a right in the 
office and residential zone within the overlay. And then so that, but then, so is that saying that, 
is, does that contradict in terms of the cannabis retail. Is it saying earlier saying it is allowed and 
then... 
 
Jeffrey Roberts, Director of Zoning and Development  69:45 
So, it's a good question Mr. Chair. So, with the provision says any retail use allowed in the 
business B zoning districts may also be allowed as a right in any office or residential zone within 

City of Cambridge 

Page 20 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

the overlay. The question, then that the more specific question that I would need to ask is, does 
that mean that it must be allowed in business B as a right? Or could it also include uses that are 
allowed by special permit? So, for instance, in a business be zoning district, a cannabis retail 
store would be allowed by special permit as would a fast food establishment or commercial 
recreation establishment. So that might be a matter of interpretation. I think if the council wanted 
to be more specific or more sort of conservative on this note, it could be added to that text that 
any retail use allowed in the business B zoning district or allowed to as of right in the business 
be zoning district within the overlay may also be allowed as of right so that it's clear that only 
those uses allowed as of right would have the same allowance if they're along Mass Ave, Mount 
Auburn Street, Arrow street or Bow street. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  71:05 
So why don't you... we don't have to do that now and go backwards. Why don't you play with 
some of that language and then we can amend it as this moves forward? So, on 4.35(s), 
cannabis retail store, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed nay. The ayes have it. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  71:28 
Mr. Chair. While we're on that section. I hate to do this because it's so annoying, but it's 
bothering me. Can we please capitalize the "S" in sales?  
 
Patrick Barrett  71:40 
I fully endorse that amendment. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  71:40 
Where are you? 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  71:40 
It's the contract attorney in me. The drafting.  It's 4.35(M). And the "sale", "s" is lower case. That 
doesn't have to be an amendment but just it was bothering me. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  71:55 
Thank you. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  71:56 
Good catch.  
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  71:59 
Point of order. A little bit relevant if, if we do change the language to say, as of right in number 
one, then it doesn't make sense to say, cannabis retail store at all because it's not allowed as of 
right. So, I think it does make sense to try to resolve that right away. 
 
Patrick Barrett  72:24 
Through you, Mr. Chair. I think last time I spent a good amount of time with his language was 
before the new year. And going through the amendments. That's precisely why it is enumerated 
at the base of this because I say not all, not all commercial users in the BB district, but all retail 
users under 4.35 are allowed in this district and specifically enumerating cannabis retail. Even if 
I were to go and get a special permit for it, I think it's certain puts the person on notice that that 
use simply is not allowed in this district. So, it's not really as duplicative I think, as it was 
explained before. But I think to Councillor Zondervan's point, I think you'd kind of choose one or 
the other. And you can in the amendment, if you just decided that you could strike that 

City of Cambridge 

Page 21 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

language, if it's strictly as of right, or leave it is and it's pretty clear that that use is not allowed. 
Okay. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  73:24 
So, if that's the case, we can, if folks agree with that since we just voted to add 4.35(s), you 
don't have to come back with the new language in the other section if people feel comfortable 
with that answer. So next we go. 
 
Jeffrey Roberts, Director of Zoning and Development  73:40 
Can I stop for a second? Because I'm trying to make sure that I understand that the answer and 
the intent of the of the Ordinance committee. So if the, I guess that this is really complicated 
language, because it's all about sort of negative space, it's you know, certain users are allowed 
and then they're not allowed but then we're allowing them again But sometimes we're not 
allowing them and some as we're requiring a special permit so we can get very, very tangled. I 
think it's important to just to lay all that aside and understand is it, is it the intent or the desire of 
the council to allow cannabis retail stores in office and residential zoned parts of the Harvard 
Square overlay district? Ordinarily, cannabis retail stores would not be allowed in residential or 
office zone-based zoning districts. But that would be, it would be a significant, it, you know, it 
would be a significant difference if they were allowed and if it were unclear whether or not they 
were allowed, it could cause some complication. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  74:51 
Councillor Zondervan 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  74:53 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. I believe it is our intent to not allow them as is already the case. And so, I 
think the existing language just clarifies that. But it doesn't actually impose that restriction. I 
think where we're getting stuck is the as of right language, I'm not sure if that's even needed. I 
mean, we could simply strike the as of right phrase in that sentence. 
 
Jeffrey Roberts, Director of Zoning and Development  75:35 
So, Mr. Chair, I think if that is the, not to interrupt, but if, if that is the agreed upon intent of the 
committee, I think we would still ask to look at the language and make sure that that is how it 
would be interpreted. And if we feel that there's a need to make that clearer that we would 
provide that. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  75:55 
Okay, so let's move on from, from that. So now we go back. Again, it’s to strike the entirety of 
number three in that section. Questions? 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  76:08 
All those in favor say aye. Those opposed nay. The ayes have it. Now flip to page 31. And the 
amendment, recommendation is to strike 2(a), A-1, -2, -3 and then the two paragraphs below. 
Councillor Mallon? 
 
Councillor Alanna Mallon  76:32 
Mr. Chair, I have questions for the staff on this particular item. I think there was some need for 
greater clarity around the fund, the Harvard Square improvement fund that is paid into when 
there's new development and if we get rid of this, what the implications are. I think we need to 
understand that from the staff. I have a few questions. When  was the last time this fund was 
contributed to? And what were those funds used for? And I guess my underlying theme is I'm, 

City of Cambridge 

Page 22 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

I'm not ready to move away from this revenue stream, if it is something that we use for 
streetscape improvements or safety improvements or placemaking in Harvard Square. If this is 
a revenue stream that does work if there is development, and we are trying to plan for 
development in Harvard Square, I don't want to walk away from this as a revenue stream. But I 
also want to understand if there's no money in it, and there hasn't been, and we don't do 
anything with that. I'm fine striking this. I just want to have a clear understanding of what this is, 
what it could be and what it what it is right now.  
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  77:43 
Mr. Roberts. Or who? Mr. Roberts. 
 
Jeffrey Roberts, Director of Zoning and Development  77:44 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. So, to answer the first part of the question. The so, the, on the most 
recent contribution... In fact, we did have a contribution made last year it's for the Regent, the 
Abbott building project right at the corner there, JFK and Brattle Street. So, it was recently 
approved project by the Planning Board, there was also reviewed by Historical Commission, 
and it provided because there's no parking provided on the site, it provides a contribution of 
approximately $2 million, I believe. So, the way that the ordinance works is it requires a 
contribution based on the cost of construction of parking spaces, which is pretty high in 
Cambridge. So, based on staff's analysis of the construction costs, the payment that a, the 
contribution that a project would have to make is about $50,000 per parking space. 
Approximately. So, the source for some from Matt some background that was the first 
contribution to the fund, in probably over decade. So, it... to the Councillor's question or the vice 
mayor's question about this being a sort of reliable revenue stream, it hasn't been what I would 
refer to as a, sort of a constant stream of funding for any particular kind of us. It's more of a 
every once in a while when there's a project that is of a sufficient scale, and really with the, 
frankly, with the resources to be able to provide that kind of a contribution that it does, will 
provide a chunk of funding which the city can then decide how to use. This in this case, because 
it was a recent contribution. It hasn't gone through the review process yet in terms of 
determining what the use might be and then the advisory harvest Advisory Committee makes a 
recommendation. It is, I think, beyond that it's, because of the way the zoning is written, it's, you 
know, a development might not have to make the contribution based on reducing the overall 
size. 
 
Jeffrey Roberts, Director of Zoning and Development  80:17 
And so for smaller projects that don't want to or don't have the resources to make that funding 
contribution, they will often make the choice of trying to reduce the scale of the project, the size 
of the project to be within the within 80% of the district limit, so as to not have to make the 
contribution. I think the other point that was made by the petitioners, in this, is that aside from 
Harvard Square and Central's where in any other part of the city, a development can seek a 
special permit to waive or eliminate the parking requirement and there's no there's no funding 
contribution required. So, it's a, it's a rather unique provision in the zoning ordinance. It, the 
application of it is, it's not completely, it doesn't work in the same way in each in each particular 
case. And so, it's hard to look at it as a reliable ongoing source of funding. But the Planning 
Board did note in their recommendation that while there are some issues with the provisions 
that is written now, they urge the city council to think about, you know, are there other 
alternatives rather than doing away with an entirely. Are there ways that it could be 
reformulated? And to think carefully about the uses of those funds or the purpose that those 
funds might serve? I'll make one more point I think to answer another part of your question 
about the uses of the funds. The zoning language states that the, the initial intent of this was 
when projects aren't providing parking, it would provide some revenue to the city or some 

City of Cambridge 

Page 23 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

funding to the city. So, the city could create public parking, which is something that no matter 
how much funding comes in, it's still very challenging. It would be very challenging for the city 
and may not be desirable for other reasons to try to create new public parking in the area. So, it 
often is used for other transportation or public realm related improvements, pedestrian, bicycle 
facilities. That's how it's generally been used in the past. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  82:44 
Miss Farooq. 
 
Iram Farooq, Assistant City Manager for Community Development  82:46 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to add that one other thought that I think that the petitioner 
did touch on. Which is that just thinking about how we look at parking in planning today. We're 
not actually creating more parking requirements we, are across the board, thinking about how 
we can reduce parking requirements and not have people be incentivized to build more. 
However, that said, I think that the vice mayor's point is an important one, because even though 
we have not had contributions to this fund for a long time, that has been because there really 
hasn't, hadn't been construction activity in the square. And now we have seen some amount of 
turnover of sites and a lot of anticipated development. So, there could in fact, be, it could be 
more of a revenue stream if it is retained. And one way to think about how this interfaces with 
planning is to not try to solve this in this particular rezoning but to think about when we address 
parking in a city wide way, it might impact the parking ratios, and then there, as a result of that 
could impact whether there are contributions or not.  
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  84:17 
Vice Mayor. 
 
Councillor Alanna Mallon  84:19 
Thank you. I was just... thank you for that, because we've been talking a lot about parking and 
parking ratios. And I do think that that is a way for us to address this particular issue. While not 
doing it here. I know in Central Square; I know I haven't had a minute to look up how exactly it 
works. But there are different buckets that the parking fund goes into and it seems to me, you 
know, we have a provision for arts and culture, we have a provision for street improvements, 
sidewalk improvements. So, you know, it's not about creating new public parking. I do think it is 
something that we need to address overall. I just, I can't figure out what problem we're trying to 
solve. I'm just wondering if the petitioner maybe we are trying to incentivize smaller 
developments where, for which this is a financial barrier. So, Mr. Barrett? Through you. 
 
Patrick Barrett  85:13 
Thank you. I think, I just get a bigger picture of this. You know, the groups that came together to 
put this petition together represented interests across the board, whether it be property owners, 
business owners, universities, as well as neighborhood groups, and that each piece of it for 
represents a give and pull on either side. This particular provision exists in Central Square 
because I put it there. And in my last presentation on this, I look at that provision now as 
potentially a mistake on my part. For the reason that, I think as stated by Jeff and Iram 
indirectly. That if you have a group that has enough capital, you're going to be able to get, exact 
a fund or some money from them, potentially, provided that if they want to go above 80% of 
FAR.  For the infill projects, the smaller projects, which are still many potentially there. This is a 
prohibitive barrier because remember, you're not going to pay to exclude parking in an existing 
building. That provision already exists, but you will pay for any addition there too. The problem 
that I think we're trying to address is in predictability and the ability for the infill development that 
we anticipate, will trickle through Harvard Square and as stated this, this fun hasn't really done a 

City of Cambridge 

Page 24 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

lot.  It has done something recently and may do something when Church Street gets lift off for 
another decade or so or and when you know the Asana group decides to stop kicking all their 
tenants and maybe do something there. 
 
Patrick Barrett  87:06 
But, in my opinion, this represents sort of an archaic provision and planning and that, why do we 
want someone to stay below FAR? Why do we want someone to put money and provision for 
transfer, for more parking in the district? And I don't think that we do. All these things that 
unique about Harvard Square is, unlike most squares, it has a significant collection of important 
buildings that we don't want to incentivize ripping out and going underneath to build parking to 
either avoid paying a $2 million fee, or that we don't want to simply have stagnate. That's the 
reason why we're here. We didn't want this district to keep languishing. We wanted to infuse it 
with some incentive to do things. This provision is not a boon for the city. And while $2 million 
coming from Regency now is nice to have, I think in the grand scheme of 20 year, 20 years into 
zoning in Harvard Square. 
 
Patrick Barrett  88:07 
I don't see it as being as much of a potential benefit to the district as the infill development that 
we're trying to spur. So, in that sense, it was a balance. This one provision was the biggest point 
of interest among small, small property owners and landlords in Harvard Square because this 
does block them from utilizing anything in the zoning essentially, that if this provision were to be, 
were to be not stricken, that essentially, you're going to continue to see the proliferation of larger 
groups buying smaller groups out which you'll still see but that eventually the smaller landlords 
will just,  they won't utilize this and the way that we anticipate it. 
 
Patrick Barrett  88:55 
Vice Mayor. 
 
Councillor Alanna Mallon  88:56 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. Through you. I mean, I, with all due respect, I don't think anyone is going 
to build underground parking to avoid $2 million in a contribution with the amount of money at 
cost per parking spot, under underground... 
 
Patrick Barrett  89:10 
That's precisely my point, they're not going to build at all. So if you're faced if you're a small 
developer and you're faced with the either you have a project that you're going to add a couple 
thousand square feet to and then buy into a parking provision where you're paying a couple 
hundred thousand dollars to get out of it, that has the potential to destroy a pro forma for a small 
project. 
 
Councillor Alanna Mallon  89:32 
Okay, so thank you, Mr. Chair through you. I'm curious to see what my colleagues think about 
this. If anybody has any thoughts. I'm not sure I'm totally comfortable with striking this language 
and walking away from a potential revenue stream. And I'm not sure I'm convinced that that's 
the right thing to do. So, I yield the floor 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  89:56 
Councillor Carlone. 
 
 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 25 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

Councillor Dennis Carlone  89:57 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. I understand why this discussion is happening. In some ways it seems 
like a step back from a policy that has stated goals but on the other hand in a special permit 
there can be sharing a public improvements can they're not with the developers’ part of the 
scheme if the criteria said such. 
 
Iram Farooq, Assistant City Manager for Community Development  90:28 
Through you Mr. Chair. Only if there is some trigger that is some thresholds that is crossed and 
that it is a mitigation for that. It's very hard to have criteria that, that that might accomplish that. 
So, for instance, the only instances where a special permit is able to require something of this 
nature, in terms of infrastructure improvements are if they, if one of the traffic triggers, for 
instance, is exceeded. And then somebody might be required to make a safety improvement or 
signal changes or so forth. 
 
Jeffrey Roberts, Director of Zoning and Development  91:14 
And, Mr. Chair, if I could just sort of add to that a little more sort of context of the way it works 
outside of Harvard Square, city wide. So, in, in well, back in Harvard Square, it has this 
provision that says the parking requirement can be waived, and under certain circumstances, 
they have to make the payment. That's sort of the it lays out pretty clearly, that's the exchange. 
In other parts of the city when there's a special permit to reduce or waive parking. It requires an 
analysis of what the different transportation options are, what the different parking availability 
and options are. So that all becomes part of the special permit review. And as with any special 
permit, the Planning Board or the BZA that's reviewing it can attach conditions that are meant to 
ensure that the, that the criteria are met. So it's fairly routine if someone's seeking a parking 
reduction that, for instance, traffic and parking might review that and recommend transportation 
demand management or other measures that would be attached to the special permit conditions 
to make sure that they're meeting the finding that the project won't cause undue spill over 
parking or other negative impacts on the public. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  92:24 
But, Mr. Chair it, through you. When a contractor works on a project, the sidewalk is generally 
redone that becomes a condition of using the public sidewalk. If there is a strategy, I'm not 
saying there is but if Harvard Square, the association decides to irrigate their trees and that 
becomes a criteria of ours to be part of the, you can't do that. 
 
Iram Farooq, Assistant City Manager for Community Development  92:56 
Through you Mr. Chair. The only way that one could require that through a special permit is if a 
tree were being removed through this process and was then being re... You know, a new tree 
was being installed or some somehow it was being disrupted in the public way. Otherwise, the 
things like trees and things, enhancements related to that might be more likely to be 
accomplished on the site. It's challenging to be asking somebody to be doing something on the 
public way unless there's a very clear nexus between the project and its impact on whatever is 
desired to play against.  
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  93:42 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  93:43 
Mr. Barrett. 
 
Patrick Barrett  93:45 

City of Cambridge 

Page 26 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

I just like to add a couple of points. One, the provision that requires an 80% of FAR to trigger 
this effect, that if you stay under the 80% of AFR, we are rewarding developers or we’re 
essentially rewarding development by less density. Essentially goes contrary to everything we're 
being told in transit nodes about development. That we want to actually increase the density of 
these districts, more so than other districts. I think it's interesting to note that Harvard Square 
and Central Square though I put an asterisk next to my name for that one. This is the only place 
where we penalize development in this way. It is also the most difficult place to address parking 
concerns. I've oftentimes heard the council discuss and citizens discuss the possibility of 
making Harvard Square carless or the possibility of, you know, increased bike lanes and you 
know, what have you. But if a project is built in Kendall Square, arguably the most lucrative part 
of our city. Such provision doesn't exist. If you build in Porter square, it doesn't exist. If you build 
in any part of the city but the overlay of  Harvard Square in Central Square, this doesn't exist. 
So in my mind, and through discussions with these groups, we came to the conclusion that if 
we're going to put prohibitions on a large triple net tenants like banks, if we're going to try to 
incentivize local retail, smaller footprints and invigorate the square with uses that people will 
like, that putting a duplicative tax on top of that kind of development scheme is contrary to 
almost everything this petition stands for. And while I do understand that the desire to keep a 
potential revenue stream in line because you simply have it there. I don't think that the fact that 
you have it justifies keeping it.  
 
Patrick Barrett  95:49 
Again, we have always been sort of amicable in terms of our working with the council, but this 
one provision is an important one to property owners in Harvard Square for lots of important, for 
lots of obvious reasons. I don't think we want to incentivize them to duck it. I think if you are 
encouraging to go beyond the 80% of FAR, you're increasing the tax base of the district, which 
is obviously a net positive revenue stream wise. But I would ask the council just to consider, 
what is it you're teaching us with this provision? What is it that we're supposed to glean from it 
development wise in terms of the plan of a Harvard Square is that we're supposed to stay under 
80%? Is it that we're supposed to keep our belt, keep the existing buildings exactly as they are 
do not go beyond the scheming and of course, a lot of them are beyond the 80% already, 
because a lot of buildings were built before FAR before zoning and they're already non-
compliant? So, I think it's, I do understand fully the power of having a revenue stream. I don't 
always think that that is the best way to achieve the goals that you're trying to achieve for a 
district. When there are other, more practical ways that also apply to other parts of the district. 
Unless, I mean, I'm not recommending you do this, you know if we're willing to apply this to city 
wide. What's unique about Harvard Square that this has to stay this way? And I think in terms of 
support, if this provision is withdrawn, I cannot see the Harvard Square Business Association 
continuing their support for this, although [sic] beyond their grasp. It's simply one of the 
probably, if not the most important piece to the small owners in Harvard Square, that they are 
alleviated from this in order to realize the density that this petition ultimately is pushing. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  97:41 
Pleasure the council? Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler. 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler  97:46 
Yeah, I'm generally in favor this, in favor of, I think we should be moving towards getting rid of 
parking minimums in general and I realize this isn't a parking minimum but sort of anything that 
incentivizes parking, and this seems like a provision... One of the sort of similar angles, so, 
yeah, I support it. 
 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 27 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

Charles Sullivan, Executive Director of the Cambridge Historical Commission  98:07 
Can I make a comment Mr. Chair? I think the motivations for this provision in the first place were 
that it occurred during a period when this was a car centric culture. That Harvard Square was 
the only place in Cambridge where there was significant economic development activity in the 
1970s and early 1980s. Before Alewife before, before Lechmere, before Cambridge port, 
Cambridge Research Park. And the thought was that there was so much demand at Harvard 
Square that parking should be controlled in this way. That on the one hand, I think the Planning 
Board recognized that parking in the center of Harvard Square was not very desirable. No one 
wanted curb cuts. People didn't want cars actually coming into the middle of the city. But that 
the city could take advantage of the demand for redevelopment potential in Harvard Square to 
impose this sort of fee on development. The climate is entirely change. Harvard Square is no 
longer the only economic development game in town. And I think it's an historical anomaly that 
this was put into place when it was and that it remains in effect. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  99:33 
Pleasure of the committee? I would just, you know, I think this is a, I think this is a tough one 
because I actually I think the vice mayor makes some really valid points about... Even though it 
hasn't yielded a lot of money in the past... You know, it may... You know, it may in the future, but 
I also, I hear what, you know, I also don't want to do something that is going to make it more 
difficult on small property owners in the square. Mr. Barrett. 
 
Patrick Barrett  100:05 
 one point that we already have a provision to address commercial development in the city. It 
didn't exist at the time of adoption of this provision particularly. And it's called linkage. And when 
we look in development, we now calculate the totality of that building. So even the existing 
square footage, so that when a linkage fee is associated with commercial development, which, 
just so we understand, the reason why there's not a massive amount of housing requests in this 
petition is because Harvard Square has been at a 4.0 for commercial development, for decades, 
whereas residentials been a three which is another big change. We've tried to least normalize 
that condition. However, this provision existed before linkage existed. So, I think it's worth noting 
that you are able to now especially with the increases to linkage, to get money from commercial 
development in the way... I think a more modern way than anticipated by this. So, I just want to 
make sure that that's clear. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  101:09 
Alright, if we're ready to vote? 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  101:12 
On striking "a", in its entirety, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed. The ayes have it. We 
also, this wasn't, now that we did that it's not listed here, but we then have to change in that 
section under number two, we have to change B to A, C to B, D to C and E to D. So, on that 
amendment, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed nay. The ayes have it. We now move to 
page 33, 20.54.6. It's to add nonresidential uses and 4.0 for all residential uses. For... 
parentheses 4.31 A through H and to strike uses except dwellings, 3.0 for dwellings. Any 
questions? On adoption, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed nay. The ayes have it. Then 
is to add, the next amendment is to add 20.54.7 additional FAR upon the issuance of a special 
permit, the special permit granting authority may increase the allowable FAR on any lot or 
portion of a lot located within the Harvard Square overlay district for any residential use in 
Section 4.3, A through H or any commercial use in Section 4.34 or 4.35 provided the use and 
design complies with the goals and design guidelines set forth in the Harvard Square 
Conservation District. Councillor Carlone. 

City of Cambridge 

Page 28 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  102:55 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is the area that we were discussing earlier to specify at the end of 
the second line on any lot or portion of a lot and add in the business B district located within. So, 
it's not the whole overlay district it's only business B. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  103:19 
So, the you would amend this on any lot or portion of a lot... 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  103:25 
In the business B district located within the Harvard Square or something to that effect if Jeff 
wishes or the petitioner wishes the change it. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  103:39 
Ok with that? Okay. So, first, we would, we would have to vote Councillor Carlone's 
amendment. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed nay? The ayes have it. And then on 
20.54.7 as amended, Councillor Carlone. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  103:55 
Just, I know we're not going to do it now. But the whole notion... This allows labs, continues to 
allow labs, which means they could get the increase in density. And there's question, I'm not 
suggesting we discuss it now, in the city about labs and the squares, including central square. 
So, I'm just raising it as something that we'll talk about in the future. But I question that. 
 
Patrick Barrett  104:23 
To Councillor... to Councillor Carlone's point, I fully agree with him. And I do believe we need to 
address this in Central Square, in Harvard Square, you know, for better or worse or whatever. 
It's been a business district for... it's there. The thing that would ask the council to look at 
beyond this petition is the definition of a lab. Right now, it's not quite clear, and that the 
unintended consequences of adding any kind of language like that right now would be 
unfortunate. But I do ask the council to look into that. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  104:56 
Thank you. So, we pass Councillor Carlone's amendment. On 20.54.7 as amended. All those in 
favor say aye. Those opposed nay. The ayes have it. We are then down to 20.54.8 FAR 
exemption for ground floor retail, retail spaces of 1500 square feet or less shall be excluded 
from the calculation of floor area ratio. Questions? 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  105:27 
Councillor Carlone. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  105:28 
Well there was the comment about frontage versus square footage, I thought. We could move 
with this and then discuss it in the future. And then there was this discussion is a 2,000 square 
feet. I think I read that the Planning Board said that. I'm fine with this for now, but yes, please. 
 
Patrick Barrett  105:50 
Through you Mr. Chair. A point of clarification. I believe the mention of 2000 square feet came 
from board member Bowie and it was a misreading of the language in the petition. Also, the 
distinction between linear frontage and footage. I'm happy to discuss that as a potential 
element, but I think for now it needs to stay table. Thank you.  

City of Cambridge 

Page 29 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

 
Councillor Marc McGovern  106:20 
Okay. Jeff. 
 
Jeffrey Roberts, Director of Zoning and Development  106:22 
Mr. Chair, I just wanted to clarify on that point, there was a comment in the staff materials that 
came at the very beginning of the petition review, about 1500 square feet and suggesting 
potentially 2000 square feet as a number. I think that came from some, just commentary by our 
economic development division. They work with a lot of local retailers and they were finding that 
there were some number of local retailers falling in that 1500 to 2000 square foot range. So it's 
never an exact science trying to pin down you know, what numbers the appropriate number, but 
I think it's... Whatever you pick, there's always going to be some businesses that you really like 
that are going to be constrained because they're a little bit above it. But I think the suggestion 
from economic development staff was that to you know, they're starting to see businesses that 
are under 2000, but over 1500. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  107:19 
On adoption. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed nay. The ayes have it. We now move to 
20.54.9 and the recommendation is to strike, restrict uses no bank or financial institutions 
section 4.34 (e), or cannabis retail store section 11.803.1 shall occupy more than 20 feet of 
building frontage within the Harvard Square overlay, and no more than 30% of a lot's aggregate 
ground floor building frontage facing one or more public streets may be occupied by such uses, 
and to add, frontage restrictions banks Trust Company or similar financial institutions as 
identified in Section 4.34. Shall occupy no more than 25 feet of the ground floor level frontage of 
a building, facing a street measured horizontally parallel to the street. In addition, such uses 
shall not occupy more than 30% of the buildings total horizontal ground floor building frontage 
aggregated over one or more streets, the Planning Board may grant a special permit to allow a 
minor increase in the permanent frontage upon finding that such increase would create a, would 
create a result that is more compatible with the unique conditions of a particular building or site. 
And that and that the criteria set forth in Section 20.53.2 above are met. So essentially, I think 
the key to this is that we're taking out cannabis. The recommendation is to take out cannabis 
and then to go to 25 feet versus 20 feet. Is that the gist? Mr. Roberts. 
 
Jeffrey Roberts, Director of Zoning and Development  109:02 
Yes, Mr. Chair, I think that the wording was developed. This is one where we spend a little bit 
more time on the wording because there were many questions during the hearing process about 
how to interpret what frontage means and how it's calculated. So, the gist of it is that this 25 feet 
with a provision for a special permit. And I'll just note, just given the we know that there was a 
concern to the petitioners about whether this, whether the special permit should be allowed or 
not. And whether it would, you know, leave everything really open ended, we really tried to 
phrase the special permit provision to be very specific as to what the intent was. It really doesn't 
leave everything wide open. It just accounts for situations where just the design of an existing 
building might make it more appropriate to have a 28-foot frontage rather than having to kind of 
mess with the facade and an unusual way to try to squeeze it into the into the desired frontage 
trip limit. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  109:59 
Are there any questions? 
 
 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 30 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

Councillor Marc McGovern  110:03 
On adoption of this amendment? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed nay. The ayes have 
it. 20.54.10 to add fast order food establishments, as identified in Section 4.35(o), are allowed 
by right within the Harvard Square overlay district and are further not subject to the provisions of 
Article 11.30 of this ordinance provided the fast order food establishment is not a formula 
business. Questions? Mr. Barrett. 
 
Patrick Barrett  110:41 
I don't have a question as much as I... this particular provision. I think if any part of this petition 
has me in it, it's this one. This is a city-wide issue that I think the council needs to look at as a 
city. Why don't you eventually but that the fast order food as defined and the requirements into 
article 11 that upon transfer of that business to another person also requires a special permit. I 
think we're beyond this, and I'm going to get on my soapbox, but thank you. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  111:12 
Okay. Questions? comments? On adoption? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed nay. 
The ayes have it. That is the end of what has been proposed. So, where we stand now is, we 
now have an amended Harvard Square overlay district zoning petition in front of us. There's one 
piece that's still a little bit outstanding, which CDD will get back to us down the road, but we 
could certainly do that in Council. Doesn't necessarily, it's pretty minor, doesn't necessarily have 
to come back here. Councillor Carlone. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  111:47 
Two things to Mr. Chair. One is I would love to have Charlie Sullivan talk about the 
Conservation District not... it's a 90-page document. So, we're not expecting everything but just 
a quick overview. And to talk how was, to tell us how it was, remind us how a certificate of 
appropriateness is necessary, and how that works with a special permit. I know they're two 
separate things, but how does, how will this review work? And then secondly, I'd like to talk 
about criteria for approval and how we're going to work on that together. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  112:35 
I'm sure if I know Mr. Sullivan, he has every word of those 90 pages committed to memory. 
 
Charles Sullivan, Executive Director of the Cambridge Historical Commission  112:43 
Well, the neighborhood conservation district was established in 2000s... 
 
Mayor Marc McGovern  112:49 
Hate to cut you off, but the clerk did notify... just mentioned to me that this is beyond the call of 
the meeting.  
 
Mayor Marc McGovern  112:55 
Oh, well, then that's, I don't see how that can be since zoning is based... This whole thing is 
based on the conservation district. 
 
Mayor Marc McGovern  113:09 
Maybe it's the question... 
 
Charles Sullivan, Executive Director of the Cambridge Historical Commission  113:11 
Mr. Chair. 
 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 31 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

January 30, 2020 

Councillor Marc McGovern  113:12 
Mr. Sullivan. 
 
Charles Sullivan, Executive Director of the Cambridge Historical Commission  113:13 
The Conservation District Study Committee that has been operating for the last two years, 
reached its conclusions at the end of 2019. Has prepared a final report the 90-page report that 
Councillor Carlone refers to, that is on its way to the council. A section of that would require a 
hearing before the ordinance committee, and perhaps that's the appropriate time to discuss 
that. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  113:42 
Fine. I would disagree in that interpretation, but so be it. I'm not the clerk. The criteria, every 
kind of special permit has a list of criteria. And I mentioned it to Jeff and what I'd like to suggest, 
and petitioner and I have talked about this is to do a draft together the Ordinance committee 
with Historic with the petitioner, with Community Development, and come back when we meet 
next and just talk about it. And it's the kind... the Planning Board said, what are the aspirations? 
How are we going to decide if something's yay or nay? And it's that kind of thing. The amount of 
ground floor retail, obvious things like that. Is there any housing? Maybe that's not appropriate, 
but those kinds of questions, and we would make sure that it's true criteria. There are none in 
this package. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  114:39 
We can do that moving forward. So, I would, our options is to move this forward as amended 
favorably to the full city council is there a motion? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  114:48 
Move to forward with a favorable recommendation. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  114:49 
Councillor Simmons moved that we move the Harvard Square zoning overlay petition forward 
as amended with a favorable recommendation, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed 
nay. The ayes have it. On a motion by Councillor Simmons to adjourn. All those in favor say 
aye. Those opposed nay. The ayes have it. We are adjourned. 

 

Petition. 

RESULT: 

1.  A  Zoning  Petition  Has  been  received  from  Suzanne  P.  Blier  regarding  Harvard  Square  Zoning 

REFERRED TO THE CITY COUNCIL WITH A FAVORABLE 
RECOMMENDATION 

 

2.  A  communication  was  received  from  Iram  Farooq,  Assistant  City  Manager  for  Community 

Development, regarding the Harvard Square Overlay District Zoning Petition 

RESULT: 

PLACED ON FILE 

City of Cambridge 

Page 32 

  

1.a

i

 

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 33

1.a

 

i

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 34

1.a

i

 

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 35

1.a

 

i

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 36

1.a

i

 

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 37

1.a

i

 

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 38

1.a

i

 

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 39

1.a

i

 

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 40

1.a

 

i

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 41

1.a

i

 

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 42

1.a

i

 

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 43

1.a

 

i

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 44

1.a

 

i

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 45

1.a

 

i

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 46

1.a

 

i

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 47

1.a

i

 

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 48

1.a

 

i

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 49

1.a

i

 

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 50

1.a

 

i

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 51

1.a

i

 

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 52

1.a

 

i

)
n
o
i
t
i
t
e
P
g
n
n
o
Z
 
e
r
a
u
q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 

 
:
 
0
8
#

 

9
1
0
2
P
P
A

 

(
 
 

9
1
0
2

.

.

7
0
1
_
g
n
n
o
Z

i

 
.

 

q
S
d
r
a
v
r
a
H

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 53

C I T Y   O F   C A M B R I D G E
Community Development Department 

To: 

Ordinance Committee 

From:  Iram Farooq, Assistant City Manager for Community Development 

IRAM FAROOQ 
Assistant City Manager for 
Community Development 

Date:  January 28, 2020  

Re: 

Harvard Square Overlay District Zoning Petition 

SANDRA CLARKE 
Deputy Director 
Chief of Administration 

KHALIL MOGASSABI 
Deputy Director 
Chief of Planning 

Attached for the Committee’s consideration at its hearing scheduled for January 30, 
2020 is a text version of the Harvard Square Overlay District zoning provisions (Section 
20.50) showing changes proposed in the Harvard Square Overlay District Zoning Petition 
(Blier, et al.) and incorporating changes recommended by the Planning Board following 
its public hearing on November 19, 2019. The Planning Board recommendation is also 
attached.  

In addition to the changes in this text, the Planning Board identified several outstanding 
issues that it believed deserved more consideration by City Council and that were 
discussed by staff at the previous Ordinance Committee hearing on December 11, 2019. 
Below is a summary of some points that were discussed: 

•

•

•

•

The Planning Board supported the proposed changes to Parking and Loading
provisions in Section 20.54.4, but suggested that the City Council consider the intent
of the provision and whether alternatives to completely eliminating the
contributions to the Harvard Square Improvement Fund might be considered, such
as adjusting the fee and/or the instances in which the requirement is applied.

Some Board members raised concerns about proposed restrictions on Formula
Businesses, with some members noting that such businesses often provide
affordable goods and services to a broad range of community members who would
otherwise have to purchase them outside of Cambridge.

Board members noted that in the petition, the additional FAR that would be allowed
by special permit is not tied to any specific requirements or criteria, and wanted to
ensure that a clear public benefit would be derived from granting such additional
FAR. Staff noted that more specific criteria could be established to guide the
Planning Board in determining whether the additional FAR supports the City’s
objectives, such as protection and support for retail businesses that are publicly
accessible and activate the street.

Some Board members expressed concern that these changes might preemptively
conflict with the Affordable Housing Overlay proposal, if it is advanced in the future.
Staff noted at the previous Ordinance Committee hearing that, technically, there is
no preemption because a future zoning amendment could also affect the current
amendment; however, because the current petition increases the allowed density
for market-rate commercial and residential uses in Harvard Square, a future
amendment to advantage affordable housing citywide might be less effective in this
area or might require further density increases to be effective.

344 Broadway 
Cambridge, MA 02139 
Voice: 617 349-4600 
Fax: 617 349-4669 
TTY: 617 349-4621 
www.cambridgema.gov

2.a

t
n
a
t
s
i
s
s
A

 
,

q
o
o
r
a
F
m
a
r
I
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
d
e
v
i
e
c
e
r
 
s
a
w
n
o
i
t
a
c
n
u
m
m
o
c
A

 

 

i

 
:
 

2
5
2
1
1
(
 
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D

l

 

 
t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
D
y
t
i
n
u
m
m
o
C
 
e
h
t
 

m
o
r
f
 

m
u
d
n
a
r
o
m
e
M

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

Packet Pg. 54

20.50 

20.51 

20.52 

The following text of the Harvard Square Overlay District Zoning Petition contains amendments 
proposed by the Petitioner (additions in underline, deletions in strikethrough) and incorporates 
revisions recommended by the Planning Board at its meeting on November 19, 2019 (additions 
in double underline, deletions in double strikethrough). All changes are highlighted. 

2.a

HARVARD SQUARE OVERLAY DISTRICT AND HARVARD SQUARE 
HISTORIC OVERLAY DISTRICT 

Establishment and Scope. There is hereby established the Harvard Square 
Overlay District and, the Harvard Square Historic Overlay District, and 
Harvard Square Conservation District Goals and Guidelines which shall be 
governed by the regulations and procedures specified in this Section 20.50. 
It is the intent of this section that these regulations will apply to an area 
described generally as the Harvard Square business district and certain 
abutting portions of the neighborhoods around it. 

Historical 
Commission staff 
noted that the 
Goals as well as 
the Guidelines of 
the Conservation 
District should be 
referenced. 

20.51.1  

 The Harvard Square Overlay District shall be that overlay district established on 
the Zoning Map of the City of Cambridge by Section 3.20. The Harvard Square 
Historic Overlay District shall be that portion of the Harvard Square Overlay 
district that is encompassed by any historic district duly established by the City 
Council under the authority granted by the City of Cambridge by Chapter 40C of 
the General Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts or any Neighborhood 
Conservation District established by the City Council under the provisions of 
chapter 2.78 of the Cambridge Municipal Code. All provisions of the Harvard 
Square Overlay District and all references to it in this Ordinance shall apply 
equally to the Harvard Square Historic Overlay District except as set forth below. 

General Purpose. It is the purpose of this Section 20.50 to augment existing zoning 
regulations to respond to the unique problems and pressures for change particular to 
the Harvard Square area. The regulations contained in said section provide for more 
careful public scrutiny of development proposals that may alter the established urban 
form of the Harvard Square area. These regulations are intended to channel the 
extreme development pressures in ways which will preserve and enhance the unique 
functional environment and visual character of Harvard Square; to mitigate the 
functional impacts of new development on adjacent residential neighborhoods; to 
maintain the present diversity of development and open space patterns and building 
scales and ages; and to provide sufficient regulatory flexibility to advance the general 
purposes of this Section 20.52. The additional flexibility granted to development 
within the Harvard Square Historic Overlay District is intended to facilitate the 
protection and enhancement of the historic resources and character of Harvard Square 
while not unreasonably limiting the opportunities for appropriate contemporary 
changes to the built environment in the Harvard Square area. 

20.53 

General Provisions. 

20.53.1   The Harvard Square Overlay District shall be considered an area of special 

planning concern. Development proposals listed in Subsection 19.42 and 19.43, 
Development Consultation Procedures, shall be subject to the Development 
Consultation Procedure specified in Article 19.40 except that any Large Project 
Review (new buildings of 2,000 square feet or more) shall be conducted by the 

t
n
a
t
s
i
s
s
A

 
,

q
o
o
r
a
F
m
a
r
I
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
d
e
v
i
e
c
e
r
 
s
a
w
n
o
i
t
a
c
n
u
m
m
o
c
A

 

 

i

 
:
 

2
5
2
1
1
(
 
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D

l

 

 
t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
D
y
t
i
n
u
m
m
o
C
 
e
h
t
 

m
o
r
f
 

m
u
d
n
a
r
o
m
e
M

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

January 28, 2020 

Page 1 of 10 

Packet Pg. 55

The following text of the Harvard Square Overlay District Zoning Petition contains amendments 
proposed by the Petitioner (additions in underline, deletions in strikethrough) and incorporates 
revisions recommended by the Planning Board at its meeting on November 19, 2019 (additions 
in double underline, deletions in double strikethrough). All changes are highlighted. 
 

Harvard Square Advisory Committee using procedures specified in Subsection 
20.54.1 of this Section 20.50.  

20.53.2   Criteria for Development Consultation Review and Review of Applications for 
Special Permits and Variances. In reviewing applications for variances, special 
permits or development consultation reviews the permit or special permit granting 
authority or the Harvard Square Advisory Committee shall be guided by the 
objectives and criteria contained in the publication Harvard Square Development 
Guidelines [Document complied from the Guidelines for Development and 
Historic Preservation as contained in the Final Report of the Harvard Square 
Neighborhood Conservation District Study Committee, dated November 29, 2000 
and the Harvard Square Development Guidelines, 1986], in addition to the 
requirements of Sections 10.30 (Variances) and 10.40 (Special Permits) and this 
Section 20.50. These guidelines are also intended to assist in shaping any 
contemplated physical change within the Harvard Square Overlay District  

20.53.3   National Register and Contributing Buildings. For the purposes of this Section 

20.50 the following definitions shall apply:  

1.   National Register Building shall be a building individually listed or 

determined eligible for the National Register of Historic Places as determined 
by the Secretary of the Department of the Interior.  

2.   A contributing building shall be:  

a.  

Identified as a contributing building in a listed or eligible National 
Register District as determined by the Secretary of the Department of 
Interior; or  

b.   A building located outside a National Register District but identified as 
a contributing building in the Harvard Square Development Guidelines, 
Community Development Department, July 1, 1986.  

However, a building shall no longer be considered a contributing building as 
defined in this Subsection 20.53.3(b) for the purposes of this Section 20.50 if, 
upon application for a demolition permit, the Cambridge Historical Commission 
shall determine the building not to be a preferably preserved significant building 
as defined in the City of Cambridge Demolition Ordinance #965. 

20.54  

   Detailed Provisions .  

20.54.1   Harvard Square Advisory Committee. There shall be established a Harvard 
Square Advisory Committee, with members appointed by the City Manager, 
which shall have the following duties, responsibilities, and membership.  
1.   Purpose. It is the intent of this Subsection 20.54.1 that the Committee shall in 

its official actions fulfill the following purposes.  

January 28, 2020 

 

Page 2 of 10 

Packet Pg. 56

2.a

t
n
a
t
s
i
s
s
A

 
,

q
o
o
r
a
F
m
a
r
I
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
d
e
v
i
e
c
e
r
 
s
a
w
n
o
i
t
a
c
n
u
m
m
o
c
A

 

i

 

 
:
 

2
5
2
1
1
(
 
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D

 

l

 
t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
D
y
t
i
n
u
m
m
o
C
 
e
h
t
 

m
o
r
f
 

m
u
d
n
a
r
o
m
e
M

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

The following text of the Harvard Square Overlay District Zoning Petition contains amendments 
proposed by the Petitioner (additions in underline, deletions in strikethrough) and incorporates 
revisions recommended by the Planning Board at its meeting on November 19, 2019 (additions 
in double underline, deletions in double strikethrough). All changes are highlighted. 
 

2.a

The Planning Board 
noted that it was unclear 
how the appropriate 
frequency of meetings 
would be “deemed 
required” and it should 
be made clear how the 
schedule would be 
determined. 

a.   To establish a formal, ongoing body that will review all major 
development actions in the Harvard Square Overlay District.  
b.   To provide a forum within which a wide range of perspectives on 

development actions can be heard.  

c.   To support local businesses and uses that enhance the vibrancy and 
historical nature of Harvard Square with the aspirational goal of 
maintaining a seventy percent local and non-formula retail experience 
throughout the district. 

cd.   To establish a citizen/professional body which can advise both public 
agencies and private interests as to the development and urban design 
issues raised by a development or planning proposal and suggest 
avenues of research which might be pursued to resolve identified 
conflicts or make the project better fulfill both public and private 
objectives for the Harvard Square Overlay District.  

2.   Responsibilities. The Committee shall undertake all Large Project Reviews 
and shall receive all applications for variances and special permits for 
activities within the Harvard Square Overlay District for review and 
comment. In addition, the Committee may comment on any preliminary 
proposal for which any public agency or private interest may wish to receive 
advice and recommendations has planned for the Overlay. The Committee 
shall meet on an approximately monthly basis or with as much frequency as 
is deemed required needed to address pertinent issues in the Harvard Square 
Overlay District, with the schedule to be determined at the discretion of the 
Chair. 

3.   Procedures.  

a.   Within six (6) months preceding any application for (1) a building 
permit for any project subject to Large Project Development 
Consultation Review or (2) a special permit or variance for any project 
within the Harvard Square Overlay District, the graphic and other 
material required in Section 19.43.2 - Application for a Large Project 
Review shall be submitted to the Harvard Square Advisory Committee 
for their review and comment.  

b.   Within thirty (30) days of that submittal, [or within up to sixty (60) 
days with the written consent of the applicant] the Committee shall 
prepare a written report of findings and recommendations with respect 
to the applicant's proposed project.  

c.   The Committee's written report shall outline the urban design and 

development issues raised by the proposal. It shall suggest those areas 
within which additional exploration of alternatives might be sought or 
factual information gathered which might help to resolve potential 
conflicts between the public and private objectives or which help to 
shape the project to better serve these objectives.  

d.   The report shall be forwarded to the applicant and shall be included in 
any application for a building permit, special permit or variance.  

t
n
a
t
s
i
s
s
A

 
,

q
o
o
r
a
F
m
a
r
I
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
d
e
v
i
e
c
e
r
 
s
a
w
n
o
i
t
a
c
n
u
m
m
o
c
A

 

 

i

 
:
 

2
5
2
1
1
(
 
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D

l

 

 
t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
D
y
t
i
n
u
m
m
o
C
 
e
h
t
 

m
o
r
f
 

m
u
d
n
a
r
o
m
e
M

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

January 28, 2020 

 

Page 3 of 10 

Packet Pg. 57

The following text of the Harvard Square Overlay District Zoning Petition contains amendments 
proposed by the Petitioner (additions in underline, deletions in strikethrough) and incorporates 
revisions recommended by the Planning Board at its meeting on November 19, 2019 (additions 
in double underline, deletions in double strikethrough). All changes are highlighted. 
 

2.a

e.  

It is expected that, in making decisions regarding special permits and 
variances within the Overlay District, the Planning Board and/or 
Zoning Board of Appeal will give due consideration to the report and 
recommendations of the Advisory Committee. Where the Committee 
makes recommendations with respect to the granting of special permits 
and/or variances, and the Planning Board and/or Zoning Board of 
Appeal does not follow said recommendations, then the Board(s) shall 
make written reply to the Committee, detailing why the Board(s)'s 
decisions were different from the Committee recommendations.  

f.   The Community Development staff shall serve as staff to the 

Committee.  

4.   Membership and Terms 
a.   Membership. 

(1)   At least one two members having recognized qualification as an 
architect, attorney who specializes in zoning, urban planner, 
architectural historian, or landscape architect.  

(2)   One member having recognized qualifications as real estate or 

development or financial expert.  
(2)   One member from Harvard University. 
(32)  One member who operates a non-formula business within the 

Harvard Square Overlay District.  

(43)   Two One members owning commercial property within the 

Harvard Square Overlay District.  

(54)   Five members representing residents of the five abutting 
Cambridge residential neighborhoods Four residents living 
within a half mile of the Harvard Square Overlay.  

(65)   One additional resident to be appointed with should serve at 

large One member representing the Harvard Square 
Neighborhood Association or Neighborhood group representing 
Harvard Square and registered with the City of Cambridge.  

(76)   One member representing an institution owning institutional 

property in the Harvard Square Overlay District.  

(6)   One member representing an institution owning institutional 

property in the Harvard Square Overlay District.  
(87)   One member representing the Cambridge Historical 

Commission.  

The Planning Board 
recommended striking 
the language in the 
petition that reserves a 
membership seat for a 
representative from 
Harvard University and 
retaining the current 
provision to include an 
institutional property 
owner without 
specifying any one 
institution. 

The Planning Board 
recommended clarifying 
that the Committee 
should “elect” rather 
than “appoint” a Chair. 

b.   Terms. Committee members shall be appointed for terms of three years 
each. Initial appointment shall, however, be staggered such that four 
members shall have terms of one year, five members shall have terms 
of two years, and four members shall have terms of three years each. 
On an annual basis at the first meeting in September the Harvard 
Square Advisory Board Committee will appoint elect a Chair who may 
serve no more than two (2) years as chair within a three (3) year period. 

January 28, 2020 

 

Page 4 of 10 

Packet Pg. 58

t
n
a
t
s
i
s
s
A

 
,

q
o
o
r
a
F
m
a
r
I
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
d
e
v
i
e
c
e
r
 
s
a
w
n
o
i
t
a
c
n
u
m
m
o
c
A

i

 

 

 
:
 

2
5
2
1
1
(
 
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D

 

l

 
t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
D
y
t
i
n
u
m
m
o
C
 
e
h
t
 

m
o
r
f
 

m
u
d
n
a
r
o
m
e
M

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

The following text of the Harvard Square Overlay District Zoning Petition contains amendments 
proposed by the Petitioner (additions in underline, deletions in strikethrough) and incorporates 
revisions recommended by the Planning Board at its meeting on November 19, 2019 (additions 
in double underline, deletions in double strikethrough). All changes are highlighted. 
 

20.54.2     Building Height Limitations. The maximum height of buildings in the Harvard 

Square Overlay District shall be governed by the requirements of this Section 
20.54.2; however, at locations where the base zoning district establishes a more 
restrictive height limitation, the more restrictive shall apply.  
1.   As of Right Height Limitations. The maximum height of any building shall 

be sixty (60) feet.  

2.   Special Permit for Additional Height. The maximum allowable height in the 
Harvard Square Overlay District may be increased up to eighty (80) feet 
upon issuance of a Special Permit by the Planning Board. If a Special Permit 
is issued portions of the building may extend to eighty (80) feet in height 
provided that those portions in excess of sixty (60) feet are set back from the 
street line at least ten (10) feet, and that those portions are also set back from 
one or more forty-five (45) degree sky exposure planes, unless otherwise 
permitted by the Planning Board. A forty-five (45) degree sky exposure plane 
shall be an imaginary inclined plane beginning fifty-five (55) feet above any 
streetline in the districts and rising over one or more lots at a forty-five (45 ) 
degree angle.  

3.   Deleted. 

20.54.3   Retail, Business, and Consumer Service Establishments (Section 4.35) in Office 

and Residential Districts.  
1.   Any retail use (4.35) allowed in the Business B zoning districts within the 

Overlay may also be allowed as of right in any office or residential zone 
within the Overlay provided the structure that contains the use has a main 
entrance on Massachusetts Avenue, Mt. Auburn Street, Harvard Street Arrow 
Street or Bow Street. For all other lots, the Planning Board may allow by 
special permit the retail use of a lot or structure all or partially within the 
Harvard Square Overlay District and in a base residential or office district 
where retail uses are not permitted under the provisions of Section 4.30 - 
Table of Use Regulations; provided, however, that the following conditions 
are met or findings made:  
a.   The general purposes of this Section 20.50 are met.  
b.   The use will be located in a structure in existence as of June 1, 1985 

and will not involve significant new construction.  

c.   The addition of such use(s) will assist in the preservation, rehabilitation 
and/or restoration of a National Register or contributing building or 
important open space by increasing the economic feasibility of 
maintaining such features.  

d.   The preservation of the buildings and open space identified in (c) above 
is assured through an approved mechanism for the full period that the 
special permit is in force and effect.  

e.   The proposed use will preserve, rehabilitate or restore the outward 

f.  

appearance of the structure or open space.  
In its operation the use will not, in impact, be significantly different 
from the uses permitted in the base district.  

The Planning Board 
recommended deleting 
Harvard Street and 
adding Arrow Street to 
the list of streets where 
certain retail uses could 
be permitted as-of-right. 

2.a

t
n
a
t
s
i
s
s
A

 
,

q
o
o
r
a
F
m
a
r
I
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
d
e
v
i
e
c
e
r
 
s
a
w
n
o
i
t
a
c
n
u
m
m
o
c
A

 

 

i

 
:
 

2
5
2
1
1
(
 
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D

l

 

 
t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
D
y
t
i
n
u
m
m
o
C
 
e
h
t
 

m
o
r
f
 

m
u
d
n
a
r
o
m
e
M

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

January 28, 2020 

 

Page 5 of 10 

Packet Pg. 59

The following text of the Harvard Square Overlay District Zoning Petition contains amendments 
proposed by the Petitioner (additions in underline, deletions in strikethrough) and incorporates 
revisions recommended by the Planning Board at its meeting on November 19, 2019 (additions 
in double underline, deletions in double strikethrough). All changes are highlighted. 
 

2.a

g.   The use is completely contained within the structure.  
h.   The use will be patronized substantially by pedestrians and will, if 

required by the Planning Board, function adequately without additional 
off street parking or loading facilities and will in any case not generate 
vehicular traffic in quantity and type substantially different from that 
generated by permitted uses.  

i.   The applicant can demonstrate a need for the use(s) as a service to 

adjacent residential communities or to the academic community and 
can demonstrate that for economic or other reasons the use cannot 
easily be located in existing business or office districts where the use is 
permitted. In addition the applicant must demonstrate that either the use 
has been displaced as result of redevelopment elsewhere in the Harvard 
Square Overlay District, or that the use is important in its contribution 
to the variety, continuity, or uniqueness of the Harvard Square Overlay 
District.  

ji.   The retail use does not take the place of a residential or dormitory use.  
kj.   The use is not a formula business. 
lk.   The proposed use is not located in a base Residence C-2B or Office 2 

District. The following uses listed in Section 4.35 are however 
specifically prohibited:  
4.35e  (Lunchroom, restaurant, cafeteria);  
4.35f  (Establishments where alcoholic beverages are sold and 

consumed and where no dancing or entertainment is provided);  
4.35g  (Bar or other establishment where alcoholic beverages are sold 

and where dancing is provided);  

4.35j  (Mortuary, undertaking or funeral establishment);  
4.35l  (Veterinary establishment, kennel, pet shop);  
4.35m  (sales place for new and used cars);  
4.35o  (Fast Order Food Establishment);  
4.35p  (Massage establishment); 
4.35s   (Cannabis Retail Store). 

2.  

In the Office 2 base district the provisions of Section 4.40 - Footnotes to the 
Table of Use Regulations, footnote 12, shall not apply in the Harvard Square 
Overlay District.  

3.   The conditions and required findings mentioned in this Section 20.54.3 are 
not severable, and if a court declares any such condition or required finding 
invalid, then this Section 20.54.3 shall cease to operate in its entirety, and no 
additional special permits shall be issued under its authority. 

20.54.4   Parking and Loading Requirements. Uses in the Harvard Square Overlay District 

which meet the following requirements shall be exempt from the parking and 
loading requirements as specified in Section 6.36 - Schedule of Parking and 
Loading Requirements.  

t
n
a
t
s
i
s
s
A

 
,

q
o
o
r
a
F
m
a
r
I
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
d
e
v
i
e
c
e
r
 
s
a
w
n
o
i
t
a
c
n
u
m
m
o
c
A

 

i

 

 
:
 

2
5
2
1
1
(
 
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D

l

 

 
t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
D
y
t
i
n
u
m
m
o
C
 
e
h
t
 

m
o
r
f
 

m
u
d
n
a
r
o
m
e
M

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

January 28, 2020 

 

Page 6 of 10 

Packet Pg. 60

The following text of the Harvard Square Overlay District Zoning Petition contains amendments 
proposed by the Petitioner (additions in underline, deletions in strikethrough) and incorporates 
revisions recommended by the Planning Board at its meeting on November 19, 2019 (additions 
in double underline, deletions in double strikethrough). All changes are highlighted. 
 

1.   The use is contained within a structure or portion of a structure in existence 

on or before June 1, 1940 or if constructed later is identified as a National 
Register or contributing building; or  

2.a

2.   The use is contained in a new structure or new addition to a structure 

identified in (1.) above, after the issuance of a special permit by the Planning 
Board provided:  

a.   The total development authorized on the site is reduced to eighty (80) 
percent of the maximum permitted on the lot; or a cash contribution is 
made to the Harvard Square Improvement Fund to be established by the 
City of Cambridge in an amount equal to fifty (50) percent of the cost 
of construction of the spaces not provided, said contribution to be used 
by the City of Cambridge for one or more of the following capital 
improvements in the Harvard Square Overlay District:  

(1)   Provision of public parking, preferably for short term users;  

(2)  

Improvements to public parks, or restoration of historic 
structures, monuments and other features owned by the City of 
Cambridge or other public agency or a nonprofit organization;  

(3)   Extension throughout the Harvard Square Overlay District of the 
surface improvements installed by the MBTA as part of the Red 
Line subway extension(brick sidewalks, light post, street 
furniture, etc.)  

The Harvard Square Advisory Committee shall receive and make 
comments on any proposal for the expenditure of such cash 
contributions. To the extent practicable the provision of public parking 
facilities shall be the first priority of any expenditure. The funds shall 
not be used for ordinary maintenance activities normally undertaken by 
the City of Cambridge.  

The value of the cash contribution shall be determined by the 
Community Development Department assuming equivalent structured 
parking spaces and using generally accepted cost estimation methods 
customarily used by architects and engineers or using actual 
construction costs for comparable contemporary parking construction in 
Cambridge.  

b.   The subject lot is sufficiently small in size as to contribute to a 

development pattern of diverse, small scale, new structures and the 
retention of existing structures (for lots exceeding 10,000 square feet a 
specific finding shall be made that this objective has been met).  

t
n
a
t
s
i
s
s
A

 
,

q
o
o
r
a
F
m
a
r
I
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
d
e
v
i
e
c
e
r
 
s
a
w
n
o
i
t
a
c
n
u
m
m
o
c
A

 

i

 

 
:
 

2
5
2
1
1
(
 
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D

 

l

 
t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
D
y
t
i
n
u
m
m
o
C
 
e
h
t
 

m
o
r
f
 

m
u
d
n
a
r
o
m
e
M

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

January 28, 2020 

 

Page 7 of 10 

Packet Pg. 61

The following text of the Harvard Square Overlay District Zoning Petition contains amendments 
proposed by the Petitioner (additions in underline, deletions in strikethrough) and incorporates 
revisions recommended by the Planning Board at its meeting on November 19, 2019 (additions 
in double underline, deletions in double strikethrough). All changes are highlighted. 
 

2.a

c.   The Planning Board shall specifically find that an exemption from 

parking and loading requirements will result in a building design that is 
more appropriate to its location and the fabric of its neighborhood and 
that it is in conformance with the objectives and criteria contained in 
Harvard Square Development Guidelines.  

d.   No National Register or contributing building is demolished or so 

altered as to terminate or preclude its designation as a National Register 
or contributing building; and  

e.   No National Register or contributing building has been demolished or 
altered so as to terminate or preclude its designation within the five (5) 
years preceding the application. 

20.54.5   Building Setbacks. Maintenance of the Harvard Square Overlay District's 

positive diversity of building form and scale and its variety of open spaces, yards 
and courtyards is encouraged throughout the District. It is therefore desirable to 
permit design flexibility to allow any physical change in the District to reflect the 
character of the area within which it is located. To this end any building in the 
Harvard Square Overlay District shall be exempt from the yard requirements as 
specified in Section 5.30, (except where such yard abuts a lot, but not a public 
way, outside the Overlay District) if the following conditions are met:  

1.   The building existed as of December 15, 1985 or a building permit had been 

issued by that date, or  

2.   For any new building in any Business, Office or Residence C-3 base-zoning 

district, for which a building permit is issued after December 15, 1985, the 
Planning Board issues a Special Permit exempting the building from yard 
requirements provided:  

a.   The design of the new structure shall be in conformance with the 
objectives and criteria contained in Harvard Square Development 
Guidelines.  

b.   No National Register or contributing building is demolished or so 

altered as to terminate or preclude its designation as a National Register 
or contributing building; and  

c.   No National Register or contributing building previously existed on the 

site in the preceding five (5) years and which has been so altered as to 
terminate or preclude its designation or demolished prior to the 
application.  

t
n
a
t
s
i
s
s
A

 
,

q
o
o
r
a
F
m
a
r
I
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
d
e
v
i
e
c
e
r
 
s
a
w
n
o
i
t
a
c
n
u
m
m
o
c
A

 

i

 

 
:
 

2
5
2
1
1
(
 
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D

l

 

 
t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
D
y
t
i
n
u
m
m
o
C
 
e
h
t
 

m
o
r
f
 

m
u
d
n
a
r
o
m
e
M

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

January 28, 2020 

 

Page 8 of 10 

Packet Pg. 62

The following text of the Harvard Square Overlay District Zoning Petition contains amendments 
proposed by the Petitioner (additions in underline, deletions in strikethrough) and incorporates 
revisions recommended by the Planning Board at its meeting on November 19, 2019 (additions 
in double underline, deletions in double strikethrough). All changes are highlighted. 
 

20.54.6   Maximum Ratio of Floor Area to Lot Area (FAR) in the Harvard Square 

Historic Overlay District. Notwithstanding the FAR limits set forth in Article 
5.000 or elsewhere in this Ordinance, the maximum FAR applicable in the 
Harvard Square Historic Overlay District shall be as follows: Business B district: 
4.0 for all Non-Residential Uses and 4.0 for all Residential Uses (4.31 a-h) uses 
except dwellings, 3.0 for dwellings; Office 3 district: 3.0 for all uses; Office 2 
district: 2.0 for all uses; Residence C-3 district: 3.0 for all uses; Residence C-2B 
district: 1.75 for all uses; Residence C-1 district: 0.75 for all uses; Business A 
district: 1.0 for all uses except dwellings, 1.75 for dwellings.  

20.54.7   Additional FAR. Upon the issuance of a special permit, the special permit 

granting authority may increase the allowable FAR on any lot or portion of a lot 
located within the Harvard Square Overlay District for any residential use in 
section 4.31 (a-h) or any commercial use in section 4.34 or 4.35 provided the use 
and design complies with the goals and design guidelines set forth in the Harvard 
Square Conservation District. 

20.54.8   FAR Exemption for Ground Floor Retail. Retail spaces of 1,500 square feet or 

less shall be excluded from the calculation of floor area ratio. 

20.54.9   Restricted Uses. No bank or financial institution (Section 4.34e) or Cannabis 

Retail Store (Section 11.803.1), shall occupy more than twenty (20’) feet of 
building frontage within the Harvard Square Overlay, and no more than thirty 
percent (30%) of a lot’s aggregate ground-floor building frontage facing one or 
more public streets may be occupied by such uses.  

Frontage Restrictions. Banks, trust companies, or similar financial institutions as 
identified in Section 4.34e shall occupy no more than twenty-five feet (25’) of 
the ground-floor level frontage of a building facing a street, measured 
horizontally parallel to that street. In addition, such uses shall not occupy more 
than thirty percent (30%) of a building’s total horizontal ground-floor building 
frontage aggregated over one or more streets. The Planning Board may grant a 
special permit to allow a minor increase in the permitted frontage upon finding 
that such increase would create a result that is more compatible with the unique 
conditions of a particular building or site and that the criteria set forth in Section 
20.53.2 above are met. 

The Planning Board 
recommended 
removing the proposed 
frontage restrictions 
on Cannabis Retail 
Stores and proposed a 
reformulation of the 
limitation on bank 
frontage to allow 25’ 
with modifications by 
special permit. Staff 
suggests separating 
this provision from the 
subsequent provisions 
for Fast Order Food 
Establishments. 

20.54.10   Fast Order Food Establishments (as identified in Section 4.35o) are allowed by 
right within the Harvard Square Overlay District and are further not subject to 
the provisions of Article 11.30 of this Ordinance provided the Fast Order Food 
Establishment is not a Formula Business. 

20.55   Sign Regulations in the Harvard Square Historic Overlay District.  

2.a

t
n
a
t
s
i
s
s
A

 
,

q
o
o
r
a
F
m
a
r
I
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
d
e
v
i
e
c
e
r
 
s
a
w
n
o
i
t
a
c
n
u
m
m
o
c
A

 

 

i

 
:
 

2
5
2
1
1
(
 
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D

l

 

 
t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
D
y
t
i
n
u
m
m
o
C
 
e
h
t
 

m
o
r
f
 

m
u
d
n
a
r
o
m
e
M

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

January 28, 2020 

 

Page 9 of 10 

Packet Pg. 63

The following text of the Harvard Square Overlay District Zoning Petition contains amendments 
proposed by the Petitioner (additions in underline, deletions in strikethrough) and incorporates 
revisions recommended by the Planning Board at its meeting on November 19, 2019 (additions 
in double underline, deletions in double strikethrough). All changes are highlighted. 
 

20.55.1   All provisions of Article 7.000 shall apply in the Harvard Square Historic 

2.a

District, except as modified below. It is the intent of these modifications to allow 
greater flexibility in the size, location and illumination of signs in order to 
encourage more thoughtful design of individual signs, to encourage greater 
respect for the building and visual context within which new signs are erected, 
and thereby add interest and character to the shopping environment in Harvard 
Square.  

1.  

In Section 7.16.22 - Signs in all Business, Office and Industrial Districts, 
Paragraphs A, B, and C shall not apply in office and business base districts. 
However, no sign on the outside of a building may extend higher than 20 feet 
above grade.  

2.  

In Section 7.16.3 - Application of the Sign Frontage Formula shall not apply.  

3.  

In the Residence C-2B base district the provisions of Section 7.16.22 shall 
apply to permitted or legally established nonconforming office and retail 
uses. 

t
n
a
t
s
i
s
s
A

 
,

q
o
o
r
a
F
m
a
r
I
 

 

m
o
r
f
 
d
e
v
i
e
c
e
r
 
s
a
w
n
o
i
t
a
c
n
u
m
m
o
c
A

i

 

 

 
:
 

2
5
2
1
1
(
 
 
t
n
e
m

t
r
a
p
e
D

l

 

 
t
n
e
m
p
o
e
v
e
D
y
t
i
n
u
m
m
o
C
 
e
h
t
 

m
o
r
f
 

m
u
d
n
a
r
o
m
e
M

 
:
t
n
e
m
h
c
a
t
t

A

January 28, 2020 

 

Page 10 of 10 

Packet Pg. 64

2.b

r

o

f

 

r

e

g

a

n

a

M

 

y

t

i

C

 

t

n

a

t

s

i

s

s

A

 

,

q

o

o

r

a

F

 

m

a

r

I

 

m

o

r

f

 

d

e

v

i

e

c

e

r

 

s

a

w

 

n

o

i

t

a

c

i

n

u

m

m

o

c

 

A

 

:

 

2

5

2

1

1

(

 

 

d

r

a

o

B

 

g

n

i

n

n

a

l

P

 

e

h

t

 

m

o

r

f

 

n

o

i

t

a

d

n

e

m

m

o

c

e

R

 

:

t

n

e

m

h

c

a

t

t

A

Packet Pg. 65

2.b

r

o

f

 

r

e

g

a

n

a

M

 

y

t

i

C

 

t

n

a

t

s

i

s

s

A

 

,

q

o

o

r

a

F

 

m

a

r

I

 

m

o

r

f

 

d

e

v

i

e

c

e

r

 

s

a

w

 

n

o

i

t

a

c

i

n

u

m

m

o

c

 

A

 

:

 

2

5

2

1

1

(

 

 

d

r

a

o

B

 

g

n

i

n

n

a

l

P

 

e

h

t

 

m

o

r

f

 

n

o

i

t

a

d

n

e

m

m

o

c

e

R

 

:

t

n

e

m

h

c

a

t

t

A

Packet Pg. 66

2.b

r

o

f

 

r

e

g

a

n

a

M

 

y

t

i

C

 

t

n

a

t

s

i

s

s

A

 

,

q

o

o

r

a

F

 

m

a

r

I

 

m

o

r

f

 

d

e

v

i

e

c

e

r

 

s

a

w

 

n

o

i

t

a

c

i

n

u

m

m

o

c

 

A

 

:

 

2

5

2

1

1

(

 

 

d

r

a

o

B

 

g

n

i

n

n

a

l

P

 

e

h

t

 

m

o

r

f

 

n

o

i

t

a

d

n

e

m

m

o

c

e

R

 

:

t

n

e

m

h

c

a

t

t

A

Packet Pg. 67

