GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS, RULES & CLAIMS 
COMMITTEE 
 

  Tuesday, February 4, 2020 

Sullivan Chamber 

COMMITTEE MEETING 

~ MINUTES ~ 

10:00 AM 

  Called to Order at 10AM 

Attendee Name 
E. Denise Simmons 

Timothy J. Toomey 

Quinton Zondervan 

Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler 

Marc C. McGovern 

 

 

Present 

Absent 

Late 

Arrived 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

The Government Operations/Rules and Claims Committee with meet to discuss potential 
amendments to the Rules of the of City Council 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  03:00 
Good morning. A quorum of the government operations and rules committee being present I will 
now call the meeting to order. I'm Denise Simmons, chair, and present this morning is Councillor 
Marc McGovern. Mr. Neal Alpert, our Clerk, Mr. Anthony Wilson, Councillor Zondervan, 
Councillor Toomey, and Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler. We will be joined I believe by Nancy 
Glowa from the clerk's (as she arrives). The City Manager gives his apologies for not being here 
this morning. I will now read the call: "The Government Operations, Rules and Claims 
Committee will meet to discuss potential amendments to the rules of the city council."  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  03:46 
Our agenda is going to be as follows: I will give brief opening remarks, we'll then hear from our 
city clerk Anthony Wilson, after which I will introduce some items that were submitted in writing 
by the Vice Mayor Alanna Mallon, who gives her regrets about not being here, so please have 
the record show that she's an excused absence, and Councillor Zondervan as well as my own 
suggestions. I will open the floor to hear from - well, before we do that, we want to walk through 
the document rather quickly, only taking those pieces out where we want to make amendments. 
We will then hear public comment, take any unnecessary roads after that and then we will 
adjourn. So welcome to the first meeting of rules claims for '20-21 of the City Council term, as 
the term is just opening - as the term is in its opening weeks, and we have a new member and 
two new city councilors, we'd like to take this opportunity to review the rules that will govern the 
City Council through this term. Hopefully these proposed tweaks and adjustments will help the 
City Council function more smoothly going forward. This morning we'll ask our City Clerk, 
Anthony Wilson, to share some of his thoughts about the rules governing this body from his 
perspective as our resident parliamentarian, two members of the committee, Vice Mayor Mallon 
and Councillor Zondervan, have offered their suggestions for rule changes, and we shall bring 
those forward for discussion, I will introduce a couple of rule changes I would like to bring 
forward for discussion. And after that, as I said earlier, we will move into public comment. I 
would also ask; I went around just introducing everyone that was here present for the meeting. I 
will yield the floor now to our city clerk after which we will run through the agenda. And we might 

City of Cambridge 

Page 1 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

do this, which is when your particular change, we get to that item, we might just stop and say at 
this point, let's make this change. So, you have changes that you - for example, Councillor 
Zondervan, say you wanted to make changes in a particular section - I would say when that 
section comes before us, you could then offer your amendments. Clerk Wilson? You have the 
floor.  
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  06:03 
So just as a sort of brief overview, as I'm sure most of the people here are aware, the City 
Council rules function as a document that provides guidance on how the city moves forward - on 
how the council moves forward in handling its business. The primary function of the rules is to 
allow for smooth meetings that are predictable and regular. The city council and its operation in 
addition to its rules are governed by several other laws including the city's ordinances, state law 
most the one that most probably comes up is the Open Meeting Law. And so, rules changes by 
the City Council are often cabin by those other caveats. I see we have the City Solicitor here to 
guide the council as it makes rule changes within that regard. We've got at least proposals from 
three councillors: Councillor Zondervan, Vice Mayor Mallon, and Councillor Simmons, I've had a 
chance to review all of the submissions from all of the counselors. I have, I guess I will address 
my comments to specific changes or thoughts that I have on specific changes when they come 
before the body. But generally speaking, the council should consider as it reviews, the reviews 
these proposed changes, thoughts about logistically how this will affect the council - its 
operation in terms of reviewing legislation and passing that legislation on to potentially be 
ordained or adopted in some form or fashion by the body. With that, I turn it back to Madam 
Chair.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  07:50 
Thank you, Mr. Clerk. So, without any further discussion, does everyone have their rules 
document? Some of us don't.  
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  08:00 
If I may, Madam Chair, if there are any councillors that have their laptops, the rules are available 
online on the City Council webpage. I can also have Naomie make copies for the remainder of 
the body. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  08:14 
Okay, while you do that, I will just start going through. So, if you look at page one, it's rule one. 
Are there any changes? Let me give you a moment to get there. Councillor Toomey? If you 
would use your mic, or the mic closest to you. So, the Councillor just - I'll, let's wait a few 
minutes, let our Executive Assistant get copies, and when everyone has a copy, I'll continue. 
So, you now have a copy, and Councillor Zondervan, are you online? Cool. Alright, so rule one 
that's on page one. Are there any changes? Hearing none, we're going to move to Duties and 
Powers of the Chair. That's rule two.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  09:14 
Are there any changes, would people like me to read them out to them? If not, I'll just go 
numerically through each rule. People need it read out? Hearing no, then I will not read them 
out. Rule three. Any changes? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  09:35 
Rule four - are there any changes? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  09:45 

City of Cambridge 

Page 2 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

Rule five. Are there any changes? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  09:53 
Rule six, which talks about all final votes of the city council. Any changes? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  10:03 
Rule seven - are there any changes?  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  10:11 
Rule eight, are there any changes? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  10:19 
Rule nine, any changes? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  10:27 
Rule 10, any changes? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  10:35 
Rule 11, any changes? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  10:43 
Turning to page three, we are now at rule 12, any changes? I don't have any changes, but I do 
want, I did highlight that when a question comes under debate to avoid personalities. This is 
something I always mentioned when I was chairing a meeting as a call, I did not do it for this 
meeting. So, I apologize, which basically goes over the rules of decorum for the public. I don't 
see public per se. But had there been one, I think it's always important to say what the rules of 
decorum are, particularly when we have people that are coming to a meeting for the first time 
and don't always know what the rules are, but speak specifically - this kind of talking to us right 
now about not engaging in personalities. And again, it was something that I practice, particularly 
as mayor, I know, Councillor McGovern, as mayor practiced the same method of operation, 
which is just reminding people, even when we talk to each other, we don't say well, Neal Alpert, 
I disagree with him. I would say something more like "the council just introduced that, I 
disagree." And by doing that, I think it also sort of dampens down any personality conflicts that 
might arise. I just want to note for the record that we've been joined by Councillor Nolan, I'll ask 
her to take a seat at the table, please join us. Okay, we are on page three. And what we're 
doing is we're taking each rule and asking if there's any changes. So, we're at rule 13 Yes. 
Please use the mic. Thank you. 
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan  12:29 
I really apologize for not being here earlier. I actually had a question on page two, would it be 
okay to ask that? And it may already have been addressed. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  12:37 
Nothing. Do we have unanimous consent to go back to page two? Hearing no objections, 
Councillor, you have the floor. 
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan  12:46 
Thank you. I was in reviewing this, and again, I apologize if it's already been discussed, but on 
rule six - All Final Votes of the City Council on Questions Involving Expenditure of $50 or More - 
I was curious as to where that dollar amount came from and whether it's still appropriate, given 
the amount of money we're spending, I know on School Committee, it's more like $5,000. As 

City of Cambridge 

Page 3 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

you might remember that there are individual votes taken not that the information wouldn't be 
shared but that that seems like a relatively low amount. So, I don't know if that's already been 
discussed and if so, I apologize. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  13:14 
We did not discuss it. It's interesting that you should bring it up because I put a question mark 
by it, but usually - I'm pleased our solicitor or our clerk actually can speak to this - usually all 
votes that we require money, we just take a roll call vote on and maybe that preempts the need 
to put on amount because every vote that has money requires roll call vote, but I will defer to the 
clerk and then to Ms. Glowa if you want to add. Mr. Clerk, you have the floor. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  13:43 
Yeah, I will end up turning this over to the city solicitor, but under state law, the expenditures of 
funds most of those require the expense and require roll call vote of the City Council. There's 
recently been an amendment to the state law, The Municipal Monetization Act, I think it may 
have changed the amounts that the city council was required for roll calls on, but the city 
solicitor would know more about that. I think, I don't want to put her on the spot. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  14:10 
Madam solicitor, you have the floor.  
 
Nancy Glowa  14:13 
Thank you, Madam Chair. I do not know the exact amount I guess I would say that since it's 
been the practice of the council to take a roll call for the expenditure of money and that is 
something that's a significant part of the role of the Council. I would recommend leaving it alone 
but if you like I could look at the exact under the Municipal Modernization Act, what the floor is 
for the lowest amount that is required and report back to the council.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  14:41 
So, we will put it we'll put a pin in this one that City Solicitor will come back because we do need 
to have a final looks through before we present this to the council. So, think of this as clearly a 
working meeting. Any questions we put them forward on the table, solicitor or the clerk will get 
back to us with final suggestions for which that we would then move this favorably forward to the 
council for adoption. Thank you. We're going to go back now to page three, I lost where I was. I 
was on 13. Are there any changes? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  15:17 
I don't suggest any changes. But I do,  I did highlight this to say, and I talked to the clerk a little 
bit about this, at some point, it might be just helpful for the council to have what I would call 
Robert's Rules 101, you know, what's the difference between a point of order and a point of 
personal privilege? Some people take those get those two confused, but also in addition, not 
this council, I'm happy to say but in the past people would take point of order as an opportunity 
to hijack the agenda in terms of changing the role of the order of who speaks by say, oh point of 
order. Mark has the floor is a point of order and then Marc says, "You know, I really don't agree 
with that because..." and then he goes on. That's not a point of order. That was hijacking the 
agenda, not to use you, you never do that Marc. But just to give you an example, so I think it's 
important for people to understand the difference between a point of order, a point of personal 
privilege, and there is another one that escapes me right now, just to know so when you know 
how it works, when to insert it, when not to. Mr. Clerk. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  16:20 

City of Cambridge 

Page 4 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

So briefly, and I can send something around, if councilors are inclined, to direct them to the 
specific citation, the Robert's Rules of Order but a point of order -  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  16:31 
This lovely book that looks like a paperweight -  
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  16:37 
But a point of order is, is a particular action where the any councilor, essentially may raise it at 
any time to ask the question if the city council is following its rules as adopted. So for example, I 
can't think of a good example right now, but if a city councilor is - I think a good example may 
during public speak, if an individual speaking on something, it's not any agenda and the chair, or 
the mayor does not stop them, a councillor may raise a point of order and say, "I believe our 
rules instruct us to keep people to, I think items and" -  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  17:14 
I think I have an example for you. Yesterday, during Public Comment, there was clapping in the 
gallery. And I think I raised the point of order because that was something that we had laid down 
in terms of our rules of behavior, that we wouldn't do clapping, hissing, booing. And so to keep 
with that, so I raised that as a point of order because we broke with the order that we have been 
observing prior, which is we didn't do that because we didn't want to raise up one group of 
people to the disadvantage of another group of people. I yield the floor. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  17:48 
So, in summary, a point of order since simply directs the body to recognize its rules and enforce 
its rules as those instances arise. A point of personal privilege is, or a point of personal privilege 
is a little bit more flexible, in the sense that it is a member asking for something that they would 
not normally be entitled to, for example, an older member asking to stand during the 
proceedings or, or asking to be excused  to get some water or to do something that is not 
particularly in conformity with the rules. It's really at the discretion of the chair whether or not to 
allow the point of privilege, but it's discouraged to allow members to do things that are in direct 
contradiction with the rule. So, points of the points of personal privileges are essentially for the 
comfort of a member. The only other place where I've seen it used that sort of might take it out 
of the comfort range, is a councilor maybe saying that their vote wasn't recorded properly or to 
say, you know, my statement was not properly reflected in the minutes, something like that. But 
essentially, it's to provide for the comfort of members in a specific circumstance. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  19:10 
Councilor McGovern? 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  19:11 
So a lot of times - through you, Madam Chair - a lot of times people will say, point of order to 
just ask a question, Where are we in in this what what's the, is there may not be questioning 
that, that we're violating a rule, or it may not be a special request to stand or what have you, but 
they have just a general question of procedure, what have you,  so what would they use in that 
case? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  19:43 
Mr. Chair, Mr. Clerk? 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  19:44 

City of Cambridge 

Page 5 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

So being put on the spot, obviously, you know, always my mind goes blank, but there's a 
particular question that comes up as a question of information. Again, the point of any of these 
particular motions points of order, points of personal privilege, or particular question to the chair 
or not to redirect debate, if a member needs to ask a question to clarify where they are in the 
proceedings that can be appropriate and important, so that the councilors know what they're 
voting on and sort of how the meeting is proceeding. But it should be the question of the point, 
the response, and then we'll back to whatever the body is doing, and not really a time for debate 
on those particular items.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  20:32 
Any further questions on that? Councilor Toomey? 
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey  20:34 
I didn't see anything in here for a member of the chair to call for like a 10 minute recess? Should 
that be in here? I know last time at times we've had to, because the meeting kind of getting out 
of hand and stuff that maybe public safety issue that the chair, a member, would ask for a 10-
minute recess. Should that be spelled out here? I don't see it here. So, is that allowed? Because 
I don't see it here. I'm just curious. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  21:05 
So, though the chair: the rule, I don't know exactly where it is, there is the rule for I believe the 
rule for calling a recess is in the rules, I'd have to sort of go through it to double check. But even 
if it is not, the city council rules specifically incorporate Robert's Rules which talk about a recess, 
which is a motion which members can call anytime it's one of the motions of what's called a 
privilege motion therefore can be called it anytime. And so, if it is not specifically laid out in the 
city council rules the city council can amend the rules to add it. I'm going to take a moment to 
sort of review I believe I've seen it in here. And it would be in order to call the meeting to recess 
for things such as the public being disorderly or people needing time to review a particular 
document something of that nature. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  22:01 
Thank you, Mr. Clerk. Councilor Toomey? Are you yielding the floor? Ok then. Number 14, then. 
Any questions? Changes?  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  22:17 
Hearing none, we'll move to rule number 15. Mr. Clerk? 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  22:24 
If I may, Madam Chair. So, I just did a sort of brief review of the rules. And so, the motion to go 
into recess is not specifically laid out in the rules. It's not specifically laid out in the city council 
rules. But it is a part of Robert's Rules, which these rules specifically incorporate if the council 
wishes to add a rule talking about recess, that's entirely appropriate. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  22:44 
Thank you. So, to the councilor, are you asking that some note, some mention of how to 
properly call or put on the floor, the need to recess, would you like that incorporated in the 
rules? 
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey  22:57 
Something to consider, I think if it's in the Robert's Rules, and we can utilize that, that's fine as 
long as the chair and the members are aware of that. I think, certainly last term, the mayor 

City of Cambridge 

Page 6 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

called brief recesses several times. So, I just wanted to make sure that it's something that's 
allowed, and we can't be challenged on that. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  23:14 
Absolutely. And I would agree we have had, fortunately or unfortunately, a couple of times in the 
last term to have to call a recess to kind of cool the temperature in the room. And so, it's good to 
know that tool whether or not you use it is not important. It's to have in your toolbox of operating 
procedures. Miss Glowa, I see you pulling the mic, would you like to have some input on this 
item? Do you yield the floor, Councilor?  
 
Nancy Glowa, City Solicitor  23:43 
Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to note, as the clerk noted, that the rules provide that if 
something is not addressed in the council's rules, then you look to Robert's Rules. But since our 
rules do not explicitly provide for this, and this is an important issue as you've all just discussed, 
you could consider putting in here in rule 13 make a point of order request an explanation 
request a point of personal privilege or request a recess or request that the chair call a recess. 
So, you could make it more explicit if that would be of interest to the council.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  24:25 
Thank you, Ms. Glowa. Councilor Toomey, yes?  
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey  24:28 
Madam Chair, I would move to amend, to add that language. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  24:32 
So, we will add up to one to one of several motions that we would add to rule 13, Call to 
Recess. And this will also ask I think sort of drives home the point the need for us to then do a 
little tutorial because we're going to be adding new practices and procedures in that we know 
how to use them. Very good. Any further on this item? Having yielded floor, we'll move to 
number 14: any changes or amendments?  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  25:04 
Number 15? Hearing none, I move to rule 16. Councillor McGovern? 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  25:16 
Just in terms of consistency: rule 16 and rule 35 both deal with reconsideration. In rule 35 -  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  25:28 
Which is on page? 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  25:29 
Which is on page 12, it notes that you have to be on the prevailing side to file reconsideration. 
So, I just think, for consistency, if we're talking about reconsideration and rule 16, we might want 
to say that as well. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  25:53 
Very good. Any questions or discussion on that item? Then there will be language added to rule 
16 on reconsideration for consistency, thank you. Any further discussion? Hearing none, we're 
going to go to Special Events, Presentations and Regular Meetings. We are at rule 17. Any 
changes to number 17? Hearing none, we move to rule 18. Hearing none? 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 7 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

Councillor E. Denise Simmons  26:39 
There's no change, but I think if we do a little sort of tutorial, it would be very important to talk 
about when meetings start: what happens when a chair is not there. And what happens when 
neither chair is there. The most senior member and then the most senior member by age, and I 
think people don't often know that until we have had a situation where the chair wasn't there, 
and no one knew, or could figure out right there in the moment, who should chair the meeting. 
And so, I think that'd just be important thing in terms of going over the rules once they've been 
promulgated, to do a little tutorial about those items, so that we'll understand and not be sort of 
trying to figure it all out. Also, in that rule 18, this is a curiosity to me:  "All city council meeting 
show and no later than 12 o'clock midnight." Now, that's what the rules say. But I know that we 
have to our own probably discomfort, when we've had a meeting going that went past midnight, 
we would move to have the meeting extended, but it doesn't speak to that here. And so, I'm 
curious, are we not following the rules, or when it gets to be 12 o'clock, regardless, the meeting 
just adjourns? Or are we in safe waters, where we call for a vote to extend the meeting to a time 
certain? I yield the floor to you, Mr. Clerk. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  28:13 
I believe the practice of the city council to extend the meetings has been to suspend the rules, 
which is particularly to suspend the rule regarding when the meeting should end, which requires 
a two thirds vote. So - and the council has the power to suspend its rules on a vote of a number 
of its members. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  28:33 
So, thank you. Thank you for the edification. I think it should be written in the rules because it's 
not there. I want to pause to welcome our mayor and thank you for being here. It's been the 
practice (and that we did on the school committee side for years), but when I read the rules, I 
said I didn't know that just says the meeting ends. And I think if it's not codified or put in writing 
someone from the public might just say - not challenge us on the floor because they can't do it, 
but might raise it as "Well there's nothing in your rules that say you can continue the meeting 
past 12 o'clock." So, if it's a practice, let's put it in the rules so that it's there in terms of 
transparency, and everybody and being on the same page. Councillor Nolan?  
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan  29:26 
Thank you, Madam Chair. If this is the appropriate time to raise a question on the regular 
meetings, it is a question of how summer meetings get scheduled and the question of whether 
instead of having just one summer meeting, which I believe has been the practice whether there 
might be a way to at least if not, it's right through July and August, at least have one meeting in 
July and one in August? Having attended many of the council meetings at that summer meeting, 
which is somewhat similar on school committee, but even less so is that those agendas can be 
huge and long because so much time has elapsed since the prior meeting. So, I wonder if it's 
the will of the council to at least consider instead of having just one meeting for all of July and 
August to have maybe one meeting in July, one in August, and if this would be the appropriate 
rule to amend to that, as a consideration? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  30:17 
It would, it seems to me that this is the appropriate place to amend that. It says that "If agreed to 
by majority of the council at any other suitable public meeting within the City of Cambridge at 
5:30..." - it says: "...from the first Monday in January, to and including the last Monday in June, 
and from the second Monday in September, to and including the last Monday of December," -- it 
doesn't really look like it speaks to summer meetings. And so the interesting thing about the 
summer meeting, just I would say by practice, it was the practice for the council to adjourn -  the 

City of Cambridge 

Page 8 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

idea is it gives you opportunity to retool, if you have children, you know, you have this block of 
time to reorder your life. And in the past, it gave us an opportunity when we were falling behind 
with some committee reports, minutes and things of that nature, to catch up. The current 
councils, not just this one, but the trend over the last several terms has been that we just plow 
through the summer. And that does make, that's why those agendas are so rich. Before? There 
was I'll call a "gentle persons agreement," we just didn't meet in the summer. And again, that's 
not the case anymore. And so, I think it's certainly something we should think about because 
two things have to happen. Either we amend the rules to have plow right through, we don't have 
adjournment,  or we have a shorter adjournment, or we exercise the discipline, that anything 
that needs to be done gets done before June so that people do have that time.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  31:56 
The only other thing I might mention is the impact on staff. So, we often when we do have 
meetings, we call staff to attend those meetings, beyond the clerk. We have a law department; if 
it's a particular area of expertise, it might be Human Services, or DPW. And the practice, I'm not 
saying it's the rule, has been people would say, "Oh, well, the summer it'll be quieter, and we 
can do what we've been putting off." So, I would say the Council has put before us the idea of 
maybe having more than one meeting in the summer. Are there - if you yield the floor on that, I 
want to see if there's any discussion on that. Otherwise, I will put it into the document as 
something for the clerk and the city solicitor to work on. Because what would that look like? Is it: 
do we meet, instead of adjourning in June for the summer, and then having one special meeting 
that the mayor calls, it means that we meet, are you asking that we meet in July and meet in 
August as opposed to just meeting and August? So, do you yield the floor? 
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan  33:01 
Well, I would answer that question with that I was not suggesting that we meet every single 
Monday through the entire summer, but just pick one meeting in July and one meeting in 
August, with the hope and expectation that that would perhaps make the fall meetings less rich, 
because we have dealt with some of the issues that come up over the summer. So that was the 
concept for consideration. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  33:23 
Discussion - Councilor Zondervan? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  33:27 
Thank you, Madam Chair. The rules do not speak to the July meeting. So, I'm presuming that's 
a special meeting that we just traditionally called at the end of July? So, it would seem to me 
that if we wanted to also have a meeting in August, that would also be a special meeting. And 
I'm not quite sure that we are in a place where we could amend these rules in an informed way, 
because we don't really know what the needs would be for a meeting in August. So maybe 
there's a way to have a sense of what the agenda would look like before we call a special 
meeting. I don't know exactly how we would do that. But if there's a certain number of 
submissions that are pending for policy orders, or city manager updates that we would identify a 
need to call this special meeting. And I don't know if we want to codify something like that in the 
rules, but I would be a little bit cautious about changing the schedule. Especially given that our 
current schedule, in terms of this July summer meeting isn't already in the rules. So that's a 
special meeting. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  34:57 
Thank you, Councillor. Further discussion? 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 9 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

Councillor Timothy Toomey  35:01 
I strongly feel that the July meeting is sufficient. And I go back to a lot of the points that you 
raised. That is the time for - the committee meetings still take place during the summer, but it is 
a time certainly for the staff to sort of regroup and get a lot of committee reports done a lot of 
vacation time that takes place during the summer months. And I think it's in fairness to every 
staff that they have an opportunity to get some rest too. And after July meeting, the council can 
buy suspension of the rules, extend the meeting to complete the business. So that option is 
there. And I think we've utilized that several times in the past. And I think having that July 
knowing that there's the one meeting in July, people are focused on making sure that they get 
their policy orders in and conduct the meeting in an efficient way so that all the business is 
taken care of. So, whether we have a meeting at the end August and then usually the second 
Monday in September. I'm not sure how much that would alleviate a heavy agenda and in 
September, so I think leaving it the way the July meeting is more than sufficient. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  36:21 
Thank you, Council. Councilor Sobrinho-Wheeler, do you want to weigh in on this? Madam 
Mayor? 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  36:29 
Thank you. I think I'd just add that if it's looking, to Councillor Toomey's point, I think, and 
Councillor Zondervan's point, I think if it's looking like it's going to be a busier season, then we 
have that conversation in early June. And look at the calendar right now. I'm looking at July and 
it's I think we usually do it for the last week, that last Monday in July. Sometimes it's that first 
Monday in August, and then between then, and then Labor Day, it's four weeks. And I know that 
folks go on vacation, and that's a prime time. So, either we do a meeting, maybe on July 15. 
And then if we want, we can do one, two weeks later if we are worried, but I think it's not in the 
rules. Better to not put it in now and then just have open communication through a 
communication or so forth. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  37:33 
Thank you, Madam Mayor, Councillor McGovern, anything on this? Madam Solicitor? I thought 
that you wanted to speak.  
 
Nancy Glowa  37:40 
Thank you, Madam Chair. I did but it was on a different point, the earlier point about who would 
be chairing meetings. I believe that that's provided either in the charter or the municipal code. 
So I want to say that If the council wanted me to, I could look up that provision and report back 
to the council, if it is provided there, but I know that it has been traditional that if neither the 
mayor nor the vice mayor was present, it would be the most senior member. And if on occasion 
there have been two members of the same seniority than it would be what's already there.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  38:23 
It's in the rule. And it says if the senior members have the same amount of years, then you go 
by age. 
 
Nancy Glowa  38:30 
I stand corrected. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  38:32 
Okay, very good, thank you. So, on this point, I do understand what my colleague is saying 
about the agendas coming out of the actual term being so rich that by the time we get to July or 

City of Cambridge 

Page 10 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

August, the agenda's like this. But I do also hear what is codified in the rules: if we say that we 
will have a July and August meeting, then we would have to have a motion, I believe, to not 
have it because it's now in the schedule, which might get cumbersome, I don't know. That's 
number one. Number two: one idea is what we have been doing is the mayor just calls a special 
meeting of the City Council. We usually connect it with the senior luncheon so that people, 
people that tend to go away, but want to be here, the two have been sort of in the area of each 
other the summer meeting and the Harvard luncheon. Not to say that we should be scheduling 
what we do around Harvard's luncheon, but that has been the tradition. Again, I'm not rallying 
for that. I guess my recommendation would be, and I put this to the floor, is - let me go back. We 
have the provision already that the mayor can call a special meeting, correct Ms. Glowa?  
 
Nancy Glowa, City Solicitor  39:56 
Yes, Madam Chair.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  39:57 
So if the mayor has the privilege and opportunity, right, to call a special meeting and it's been 
our practice to call a summer meeting, my inclination is to kind of not change that because 
again, I think it gets more cumbersome to have to have a motion at a meeting that's not 
happening to have a meeting, that's not happening. Any thoughts on that? Councillor 
Zondervan? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  40:29 
Thank you, Madam Chair, perhaps it might be helpful to add to the rules, again, it's more for 
clarification than anything else, that state that if necessary, the mayor will call one or more 
meetings during the summer to conduct the council's business. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  40:49 
Thoughts on that? Councillor Toomey, thoughts on that? Because you've said just stick with the 
one, you were arguing to keep just the one meeting, your colleague is saying we could put 
provision that says at the discretion of the mayor, we could add a special meeting. Your 
thoughts on that? 
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey  41:07 
It's redundant, the mayor can call a special meeting at any point for any purpose, so... 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  41:12 
Ok. Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler? 
 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler  41:16 
Thank you, Madam Chair. Through you. I think that makes sense. To sort of clarify - 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  41:21 
Which makes sense? 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler  41:22 
Adding the extra sentence sort of elucidating what the procedure could be. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  41:34 
I think because it calls out, I think we have a special meeting procedure, that it is redundant. I 
think the only thing it changes, and I would look to you, Solicitor Glowa, if we want to get more 

City of Cambridge 

Page 11 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

specific. But saying summer somewhere in the rules, I'm okay with the special mayor's 
discretion.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  41:58 
Councillor McGovern? You're fine with leaving it the way it is?  
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  42:14 
So, I'm fine with adding that extra language for clarification. I do agree with Councillor Toomey 
that it's redundant, but I think we're redundant in other places as well. And it's not making a 
change. It's just highlighting what's already a rule. But I honestly, I - pleasure of the committee, I 
don't think it's necessary, but I don't think it hurts either. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  42:40 
Were you looking like you want to say something? No?  
 
Nancy Glowa, City Solicitor  42:43 
No, Thank you, Madam Chair. I think it's the pleasure of the Council.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  42:45 
Councillor Nolan, and then Madam Mayor. 
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan  42:48 
Thank you. And for me, it actually surprised me to see in the rules that summer meeting isn't 
mentioned at all. And if I just read this, I would assume there was never summer meetings since 
it really only anticipates regular meetings January to June and September through December. 
So, it was actually a surprise to me as a member of the public who has been to those meetings 
that it's not actually in the rules that at least one summer meeting will be the language proposed 
is one or more doesn't even say it will necessarily be one summer meeting. So, for me, it's more 
clarity whether it's redundant or not. Because under special meeting, it doesn't say a special 
meeting, for example, a summer meeting. So, since the word doesn't appear anywhere, if you 
just read these, you would think the council didn't even have that summer meeting, which is to 
deal with the richness. So, for me, it seems like it would be prudent to add it because it's more 
clarifying as opposed to redundant because of that timing. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  43:39 
Okay, very good. I think we're divided on this question. I don't even know how we would -  I 
could ask the clerk or the solicitor to put language together, but my inclination - I would be 
leaning toward not doing it. It's sort of like the if it ain't broke, don't fix it kind of ruling and I just 
I'm afraid that - I want a little bit more wiggle room. And because it's under the discretion of the 
mayor to call special meetings, it's been our practice in every meeting that we have, however 
big or small whenever it may happen. It's all publicly announced or presented, people would 
know about it. So my inclination and if I can read the temperature, it's four not to change it, and 
three to change it, but I'm always concerned about told this five members of the committee 
segment to vote so - you're not on the committee so you would not have the option to vote on 
this, I don't believe, but the clerk could correct me on this. Councillor Zondervan? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  44:43 
Thank you, Madam Mayor. I do agree that it would be redundant, and the purpose would be just 
clarification. The language that I'm proposing would say, if necessary, the mayor may call one or 
more special meetings during July and August to conduct the council's business. And so, it 

City of Cambridge 

Page 12 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

would just be a clarification for someone reading roles including newly elected councillors to 
have an expectation that there would be a potentially a meeting during the summer. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  45:18 
So again, I think we're divided on that, on that question. And then in terms of the members that 
are actually voting members of this committee, there may not be sufficient votes, but I could call 
for a motion, and we can see if it's accepted. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  45:34 
Can you read the language again? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  45:36 
So, moved. The language says if necessary, the mayor may call one or more special meetings 
during July and August to conduct the council's business. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  45:46 
So, there's a motion by Councillor Zondervan to amend the rule to rule 18 to add language 
relevant to special meetings in the summer. Only members that are appointed to the committee 
can vote on that. Is that correct? Right. Right. So, all those in favor, say aye. Opposed?  
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey  46:09 
No.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  46:09 
No. So there's how many, four of us present?  
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  46:14 
I'm ex officio, so I can vote.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  46:17 
So, are you voting in favor of or against adding this language? 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  46:22 
I'll vote in favor.  
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  46:26 
Through you Madam Chair - just for clarification there are five members present from the 
Committee. The members are Councillor Simmons, councillor McGovern, Council, Councillor 
Sobrinho-Wheeler, Councillor Toomey, Councillor Zondervan. And the mayor is an ex officio 
member, which will make six members. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  46:46 
Alright, so, on the motion that we add this provision, it appears that there are votes for the 
provision to be added. So, the provision goes forward as part of the recommendations in the 
minutes to the full Council on the affirmative vote of I don't know. Councillor Zondervan voted for 
it. Wheeler, Nolan - 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  47:13 
That's right, Councillor Zondervan, Wheeler, and the Mayor and McGovern voted for it. Four 
against, four in favor. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 13 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  47:24 
I think I'm not supposed to vote. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  47:26 
Say again? I have to announce the vote? 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  47:29 
No, no, I'm sorry. I don't think I can vote. 
 
Nancy Glowa, City Solicitor  47:34 
Councillor McGovern just brought to my attention and I think he's correct that although the 
mayor is a member of every committee ex officio, I believe that the mayor does not vote. So, I 
wanted to clarify that. If I could add another point of order Madam Chair. I thought that this 
would be properly placed in rule 19, because in 19, because if necessary, "the mayor may call 
one or more special meetings during July and August" would properly fall under Special 
Meetings rule 19 not under Regular Meetings rule 18. So, if I could suggest to Councillor 
Zondervan, that would be the appropriate place for such a rule if it's agreed upon by the 
committee.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  48:25 
Alright, so, a couple of things. On the vote of the Committee on Rules, that motion - pass on a 
vote of three in favor and two against - I think I had that right. But now I think we have to amend 
that vote, because Councillor Zondervan asked it to be added to rule 18 and the solicitor is 
recommending that it should be added to rule 19 - correct? So, then we will vote to add the 
amendment that was just voted that it be added to rule 19 and not rule 18. So, on the motion: All 
those in favor say aye. Opposed? 
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey  49:11 
No.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  49:14 
The ayes have it with four voting in favor and one voting against. 
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey  49:18 
Madam Mayor, further clarification: are we on 19 now? It's my understanding that four members 
- and it says, "any four council members can call a special meeting." But my understanding is 
they can call a special meeting but if five members don't show up, there's no meeting because 
there's no quorum, is that correct? 
 
Nancy Glowa, City Solicitor  49:41 
Yes, that is correct. A quorum of the council is five regardless of whether there's a provision 
allowing for four members to call for a meeting. 
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey  49:52 
That should be clarified, and so does it need to be? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  49:56 
So Councillor Toomey is asking that we - 
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey  49:58 
I just don't want people to feel by four members we're going to - 

City of Cambridge 

Page 14 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  50:01 
It says four but actually you can't do it unless you have a quorum and the quorum is five. So, on 
a recommendation that that rule be cleaned up to reflect what actually happens, and not what's 
here, which is a little misleading. Any discussion on that? Do you have that Mr. Clerk? Okay. 
So, we're going to send this all to you as PDF with the red lines in it so you can see the changes 
a lot easier. Anything else on rule 19? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  50:36 
So, on the motion to go from four to five, all those in favor say Aye? All those in favor say Aye. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  50:44 
Sorry, point of clarification: are we voting to change the number from four to five? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  50:51 
What Councillor Toomey has said in the solicitor has said to be true, it says four members could 
call a special meeting. But it takes five to actually to hold the meeting. And so, he wanted to 
change it from four members could call it to five, because that would reflect what the quorum 
asked for, if I understand what he said. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  51:17 
Right that wasn't my understanding, I thought he was offering to clarify that. I think it would be 
problematic for five members to get together and try to call a meeting because then as soon as 
they're together there, it's already a meeting. So, I don't think we can change that number. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  51:35 
So Councillor, we'll put that up for the solicitor or the clerk to address, but Councillor McGovern 
it looks like, did you want to...? 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  51:44 
I was going to say the same thing. I think if there were five members, it would be an Open 
Meeting Law violation. If all five members got on the same policy order to call a special meeting. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  51:55 
Good point. So, you have to leave it at four to call, but five have to attend for the meeting to go 
forward. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  52:03 
If I may, Madam Chair: members may discuss scheduling a meeting. They can't discuss the 
substance of legislative items before them. But scheduling is specifically called out in the Open 
Meeting Law guide as something that members can discuss. 
 
Nancy Glowa, City Solicitor  52:23 
If I could - we have gotten guidance from the Attorney General's office on that point, and I would 
hate to have any confusion about how much can be discussed. The Attorney General's Office 
interprets that fairly narrowly. So I would respectfully suggest that you could leave this as four 
members could call a meeting, but point back to rule number one, which provides that all 
business to be conducted at any meeting requires a quorum of five so you could put that part in 
here, as well, to make clear that although four members can call a meeting, five members must 
be present for the meeting to be convened.  
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 15 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

Councillor E. Denise Simmons  53:03 
Discussion? Councillor McGovern? 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  53:08 
To our clerk's point: it wouldn't just be scheduling. I mean, I would assume you would have to 
discuss what you want the special meeting for. I would think, speaking for myself, if someone 
said, "Do you want to sign on for a special meeting," I would say, "Well, what are we having a 
special meeting for?" And the minute they say, "Oh, it's because I want to file a policy order on 
x," we have now entered into a discussion of policy. So, I think it's better to leave it. And of 
course, refer it back, there needs to be a quorum. But there's a difference between how many 
you need to call the meeting and then how many you need to hold the meeting. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  53:50 
But further, there's provisions - and maybe in this rule, I didn't read it again - that say if 
something is sent to the Government Ops Committee from the Council floor, and for whatever 
reason I don't call a meeting, four members could get together and say, "We want a meeting on 
that subject." So, any further discussion? So, as I understand it, we're going to leave the 
language as it is. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  54:21 
So, as I understand it, there's a motion before - and then we're going to leave this as it is? 
Because I've kind of lost the thread here. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  54:31 
Councillor Toomey has proposed a motion to amend rule 19 to go from four to five members to 
call a special meeting. The council can vote that motion up or down. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  54:43 
So, the motion before us is as read by the Clerk. Any further discussion before I call the vote? 
Councillor Toomey? 
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey  54:51 
Could you repeat that again, please? The purpose that I brought this issue was to inform 
especially the new members that even though that four members can call it, but if five don't 
show, there's no meeting. I don't want the impression "Okay, four members can call a meeting 
any time and then come in here, four members can have a Council meeting." That was my point 
of informing the new members. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  55:14 
So, this is more a point of information than wanting to have a formal order? If that's the case, 
then please rescind your motion. Do you rescind your motion? On Councillor Toomey rescinding 
his motion, all those in favor say aye? Opposed? The ayes have it. The motion is rescinded. We 
are now going to Calendar Rule 20. Are there any changes? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  55:44 
Hearing none, I'm going to move us to rule 21. Any changes? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  55:54 
Hearing none, we'll move to rule 22 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  56:00 

City of Cambridge 

Page 16 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

Any changes? Hearing none, I will move us to rule 23. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  56:08 
Hearing none, moving to rule 24. Any changes? Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler? 
 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler  56:17 
Thank you. 24C? If that's - I don't want to skip over 24A or 24B, if there's anything else anyone 
wants to address, but -  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  56:26 
24C, what is your...? 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler  56:30 
It's on Public Comment, and it's on 24 1A. It's around speaking time. I think Public Comment is 
really valuable. I think three minutes is plenty for most times. I've been at meetings where there 
are so many people signed up to speak it sort of place the meeting and that I've, as a member 
of the public been to meetings where so many folks are signed up that I've left just knowing that 
it would take forever to get to it. So I'm wondering if we might consider amending it if there are 
more than say 15 people signed up to speak that Public Comment would be two minutes, rather 
than three, and keep it three minutes for a smaller number of speakers, I would like to put that 
on as a potential amendment. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  57:15 
Discussion? I think that's a great idea. It all ends up - and please correct me Mr. Clerk or 
Madam Solicitor - it's sort of the call of the mayor, generally you know if there's a crowd of 
people that the mayor would have the discretion to say "Because there's such a large audience, 
the Public Comment will be reduced to two minutes for each person," and then the timer will be 
accordingly so - Madam Mayor, and then Councillor McGovern.  
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  57:48 
Oh, no, I'm fine. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  57:51 
I actually like the idea of having a set number rather than to the discretion of the chair. Because 
that also holds true for committee meetings as well. Because then you run into, you know, some 
chairs say, "Well, there's 100 people, and we're going to give them all five minutes," some 
reduce it, so having consistency, so everyone knows, and that the chairs also need to be 
consistent with that, I think is a good idea. I don't know if 15 - I mean, 15 seems reasonable, but 
- I like that idea. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  58:24 
So Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler suggests that we just reduce it when there's more than two, 
Councillor McGovern is saying maybe put in a sort of a schedule, is that what you're saying? 
Did you say 15? 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler  58:37 
Sorry, I was suggesting that if there's more than 15 people signed up to speak that it would be 
two minutes per person. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  58:45 
Councillor Nolan, and then Councillor Zondervan. 

City of Cambridge 

Page 17 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

 
Councillor Patricia Nolan  58:47 
Thank you. I agree this is a concern. And yet, we're always trying to balance we want to hear 
from the public. We want to make sure their voices are heard. There are some people for whom 
it's quite stressful already to think of speaking. So, I don't know what the right answer is. I think 
it's critically important. People know this, because people sometimes have come here, they've 
carefully prepared their three minutes, I've sometimes been one of those, and then it's reduced 
to two. And you're kind of flummoxed and really concerned. So, I, I recognize we want to 
balance our desire, which all of us share, to hear from people, with ensuring that we're not going 
through two hours of Public Comment and then being tired when we get to the meeting. So, I 
think having a specific set number might be good. And if we do that, let's make sure we do 
everything we can to communicate to people as they walk in the door that this might happen, 
because then they might have time to amend some of their comments because it's, it's very 
stressful, particularly for people who aren't comfortable with public speaking, it becomes even 
more stressful to think that the time is coming up and it's dinging, and I haven't said half of what 
I want to say. So, I don't know if 15 is the right number, I would think it might be a little bit 
higher. It might be good to review the last couple years of how often that would have been 
triggered because if its every meeting that it would have been triggered then we might want to 
be pretty careful about doing it. I'm not sure I would want to limit it at every single meeting. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  60:08 
Councillor Zondervan? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  60:09 
Thank you, Madam Chair. I agree that 15 might be a little bit low. If we if we did 20 at 3 minutes, 
that's one hour, which is generally what we have allocated on the schedule. So maybe if we 
said, if there's more than 20. I'm not sure where this would go, but I had sent the suggestion to 
the clerk that if there was a way for people's communications to appear before us at the 
meeting, even if they were sent after Thursday at three o'clock, I know they can't be on the 
regular agenda because logistically that would be difficult, but if they could be printed out and on 
our desks or if there's some way for us to have people's communications also before us, during 
Public Comment, during the meeting, then it could also reduce some pressure on people to feel 
like they have to read their letter to us or somehow communicate everything in three, let alone 
two minutes, if they know that we have easy access to their communication so that we can get 
all of their comments. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  61:24 
Further discussion? 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  61:35 
So, I think, having done this three times chairing, there's folks who sign up after 5:30-6, and 
then you know, I'm figuring out how we manage that. Because there's a lot of people who walk 
in, and it goes to the other point of usually the practice has been, for those who haven't signed 
up, please -- 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  61:59 
Which I want to speak to. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  62:00 
Yeah. So, we I think we should talk about all that scenario together, so I just wanted to raise 
that.   

City of Cambridge 

Page 18 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  62:08 
I would agree. Councillor McGovern? 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  62:11 
To Ms. Nolan's point. I mean, I think yes, I mean that certainly there are folks that for a variety of 
reasons, need more time at the podium, and I think traditionally, the chair has always, has been 
pretty good. And we haven't really had it necessarily this term, but if someone if English isn't 
their first language or something, we extend time and we do that, so I think there's discretion on 
the chair's part there to do that. I would also say, if we probably went back and looked, I would 
think that most of the people who speak at Public Comment are people who speak at Public 
Comment every single week and the same thing. And it's certainly their right to do that and I 
want to hear that, but at least when I was in the chair, you know, when someone was a new 
voice, I would give them a little more leeway, then the frequent flyers, as we say. And I think that 
the chair should have that discretion. So, I'm not too worried about that. And then to the 
communications, I mean, we do, I think, you know, we do tell people to leave their comments in 
the basket. I think we all look at the communications and the emails and stuff we get. So, you 
know, that is an opportunity for people in Public Comment. If they don't finish their comments, 
they leave them or email them, and we see them anyway.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  63:34 
Thank you. Councillor Toomey?  
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey  63:39 
I concur with Councillor McGovern that we've certainly seen the chair - and a member can 
always move suspension of the rules to extend a minute to someone who we feel was probably 
new at public speaking, and I think we've always shown that deference in trying to assist that 
individual. So, we leave it to the discretion of the chair, and like I said, a member can move 
suspension of the rules to extend the speaker's time by a minute. And we've certainly done that 
many, many times.  
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey  64:13 
One issue that I have probably, you know, trying to figure out how many people are going to 
speak on a set subject. What I've seen, I'm sure everyone has seen it: I don't even know why 
we have that you have to sign up by a certain point of time, because that's gone out the window 
completely. Anybody can come in at any time. There are certain people who know that they 
have to sign up by a certain time and don't sign in. But when it's asked for people who have not 
spoken to speak, and then some of the same individuals didn't get up and speak so...I'm not 
sure why we even bother with that. Because it just seems that nobody respects that anymore. 
And I can see special circumstances of individuals. But some of these are the regular people 
who come here and know the rules. So, I just think that somehow that has to be tightened up 
somehow. Because you can have 40 people in the audience that we don't know what they're 
going to speak on. It could be one issue, and then just say, "well, don't sign up because they're 
going to restrict our time." And so, when we ask who hasn't spoken who would like to speak at 
eight o'clock in Public Comment, and 40 people can raise their hands and come up. So, I really 
think we have to look at somehow tightening. Or just do away with that rule, then you don't have 
to sign up. You just come Monday night and sit in the audience and just sign in at 5:30 and go 
from there. So that's something that I've just noticed. I think it's maybe a small issue to people. 
But I think in terms of running the meeting that it should be tightened up somehow. I'm just 
throwing that out there. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 19 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

Councillor E. Denise Simmons  66:09 
And I certainly agree with you. Who has not spoken on this? Councillor Zondervan? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  66:15 
Thank you, Madam Chair, I share Councillor Toomey's concerns as well. And I wonder if there 
is a way to maybe balance these two things. So, for example, I haven't fully thought this out. I'm 
just thinking on the spot, but we could say that, if more than an hour has passed in Public 
Comment 40 people have signed up, then it's at the discretion of the chair whether to allow 
other people to speak who are not signed up. That's one idea. Another option could be that we 
could say that people who are signed up can speak for three minutes. And then people who are 
not signed up, if they're allowed to speak, it's at the discretion of the chair to be three minutes or 
shorter. And that would also allow people who were prepared and who are signed up, they know 
that they will have their full three minutes, but people who just decide on the spot "Oh, I have 
something to say," they would know that their time might be limited. So, these are just some 
ideas to consider. I haven't fully thought this all out. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  67:43 
I think this needs a little more thought. I mean, just trying to troubleshoot that, you know, you'd 
certainly get folks who would [say] "Why do they get three and I get two?" and it gets into that 
whole thing where if it's consistent for everybody. I would also say I think that the sign-in is 
important just in terms of when you're in the chair, you know, when you get to that end and you 
say "Anyone who hasn't signed up who wants to speak?" and seven hands go up, and you don't 
know everybody's names, and it gets people started. You know, the sign-in is good for keeping 
order. One thing I've noticed since we've gone to the online sign up, especially, is that a lot of 
times you get one person who signs up for multiple people. And so, it's also a way that 
sometimes people use that to stack the public comment. I've heard people say this: "let's get our 
20 people at the beginning," so that by the time the other people go, you know, maybe they've 
left. You know, I've heard groups organize in that way. And when you have to call in and give 
your name, then that doesn't really happen because Naomi and Mary know you sign up just for 
yourself. But online, I think people are signing up for multiple people or they come here, and 
they sign for multiple people. So, I mean, that's just another part of this that I don't think it's the 
intent of our rules to allow that, but people have figured out how to game that a little bit. And 
maybe it's not a problem. But if you have, especially a long meeting that you're going to have 
hours of Public Comment, if you're forcing people of a certain point of view to be at the end of 
that, then they're going to get less attention and people are going to leave. So that's just another 
bug in this whole thing. So, I don't know if we can solve all that today, but I think it's worth 
looking at. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  69:41 
I don't think we can solve it all today. And this could take a meeting in and of itself. You know, 
Public Comment is sort of the center point of council meetings for people that attend, because 
it's their opportunity to be in front of the council to state their case, if you will. But to be as open 
as possible, it's gotten a little clunky. As one person that opened the gate for it, "Did anyone that 
didn't get signed up want to speak?" it was for that one meeting, and now it's like run out the 
barn and down the road, and do we get that issue back into the barn? I'm almost inclined to say: 
the rules say you have to be signed up by six o'clock, and if you're not you're just not. Only 
because some people are better at knowing this and some people are not, number one.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  70:29 
Number two, and I think Councillor McGovern was going here: some people say, "Well, I don't 
have to get there until eight o'clock because I know Public Comment is still open, I get to still 

City of Cambridge 

Page 20 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

speak." And then we don't get to the business. So, I almost want to go back to where we were: 
"If you've not signed up in person by six o'clock, I'm sorry. Please put your communication in 
writing, which everybody can do." And I believe it's given to us, even if it's left in that basket by 
12 o'clock. You might want to open that up, it will be on the record. But we're not extending it 
and extending it and extending it. So, my, my recommendation would be that we follow the rules 
as they are. And then if you're not signed up by six, I'm sorry. But if you have a written 
communication, you can certainly leave it, say, in the basket, and the clerk will pick it up, and it 
will be part of the record for that meeting. Yes, Madam Mayor. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  71:27 
Thank you. So, if the committee decides to go that route, I think two suggestions I'd have would 
be to make sure that we do something either - right now the computer terminal is in the Council 
office. Is there a way to move that outside? I think people don't know how to sign up, on certain 
levels, or they need to be reminded. And you know, I've said during that last meeting, "If you've 
just come in, go sign up." I could do that. But what I'm afraid of, and this has happened, is that 
there's some folks who are the frequent flyers who do have that expectation of "Wait, I did sign 
up, I wanted to talk." And so, I can see that happening. And then I'm in a position to say, "well, 
we have rules, we've decided this." So how do we, if we are doing this change, make sure...? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  72:22 
A couple of suggestions. One would be: we could say the rules have changed, this particular 
rule is changing, it goes into effect - I'm just making this up - on March 1. Number one. Number 
two: one of the recommendations, and I talked to the clerk about this, is that we have 
information on easels that go up when you come in, and they come down after Public Comment 
that say, "These are the rules of Public Comment. You have to sign up at the kiosk, sign up for 
Public Comment closes at 6pm, and there are no exceptions." I think whatever we do, it needs 
to be put out in the public domain in a way that people see it. Because you're saying that there 
are people that are regulars, they come every meeting regardless, and there are people that are 
coming for the first time and they don't know the rules. And so this going after six o'clock, or 
extending "you can talk, you can talk, you can talk," it's something that's never been put in the 
rules, but now it's become a common practice so it feels like it's in the rules. And I just feel like 
it's a slippery slope. It's the road of good intentions, but it's taking us to a place that we 
necessarily don't want to be. So, one of my recommendations would be that we just go back to 
the sign up by 6 o'clock, and if you were feeling giddy and you want to say 6:30, you can say 
6:30 for people that are coming from work and are trying to get here. But I just feel strongly 
about closing that door. Ms. Glowa, I feel is itching to say something, then to you, and then to 
the mayor. Ms. Glowa, did you want to say something?  
 
Nancy Glowa, City Solicitor  73:49 
Madam Chair, I want to just speak to Councillor Zondervan's earlier point about the written 
communication. So, if people still want to discuss this issue, I can wait. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  73:58 
Ok we'll come back to it. Is this relative to when people can sign up? 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  74:04 
Yes. So, rule 24C, 1-B, we say here, under procedure: "An individual may sign up to speak 
before the City Council via telephone to the City Council office on Mondays from nine to three, 
or online via the city's website starting at nine on the Friday before." I don't understand why it's 3 
pm. So, if we change it to five, I don't understand that break. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 21 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

Councillor E. Denise Simmons  74:34 
Okay. So, one change you're asking is to make it from nine to five, and not nine to three. I would 
want to have the executive secretary of the city council, who is the keeper of that part of it, do 
you have any strong feelings about - what it says in the rules is that you can sign up to three 
o'clock...? If you're not on mic, we can't hear, so please come to a mice or come to the table, 
whichever your preference. 
 
Naomie Stephan  75:05 
So, the break from three to five predates me. We don't need it. People can sign up from three to 
five online. So, if we were to go to a system where we set up a kiosk here, then we could do it 
between three and five. We don't need the break. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  75:22 
Very good. Thank you. So, it doesn't seem that it causes any logistical complications. More? 
Madam Mayor, any more on this? Then to you and then to Councillor Toomey, 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  75:37 
I have a different amendment on Public Comment. But if we're still talking, if Councillor Toomey 
wants to comment on this thread.  
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey  75:44 
To follow up on the mayor's suggestion, and it does get very crowded when people coming in to 
sign up, and probably a lot of people don't know that they have to come into the Council office. 
So, I would suggest following what the mayor said and work with Naomi Stephen to possibly 
have a more welcoming sign, and outside of the Council office, so that when people coming in 
know where to go. And I would suggest that maybe rotate every week one of the legislative 
assistants could staff that little booth. Because, Naomie and certainly Mary Horgan, they're very 
busy at that time. So I think maybe utilize the legislative assistants in that way so that, as people 
come up the stairs or get off the elevator, and the individual will welcome them and say "If 
you're here for Public Comment, please sign in here" and I think that would maybe alleviate a lot 
of the crush that comes between 5, 5:30 of people going to the Council office. And we're coming 
in, so it gets very crowded and very confusing. So that's something, maybe we can talk to our 
Council Assistant and see if this... 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  77:14 
If a Council assistant could do this? I think that needs a little bit more conversation. During one 
term, I had a page, or an usher. It didn't work all that well, but the idea was a high school 
student whose job was - it was kind of like a little civics lesson. You know, you sit there, and you 
sort of guide people to put your stuff in this basket, you leave your card there, you sign up here. 
I think there's some merit to some sort of Wayfinding around this Public Comment piece. 
Councillor Zondervan, is this relative to signing up for Public Comment? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  77:46 
Yes. Thank you. I just wanted to be clear about what we're proposing. And I think last night, I 
was a little bit confused by the by the vote. I believe what we're saying is that if people are going 
to be allowed to speak, who have not signed up, then there would be a vote by the Council to 
suspend the rules. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  78:13 
I'm going to pause for a moment. That used to be a practice we always exercised if somehow, 
we're going to extend someone's talking time, you're talking about? 

City of Cambridge 

Page 22 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  78:21 
No, if people have not signed up to speak, but we wish to allow them to speak anyway, then 
there would be a vote by the Council to suspend the rules.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  78:31 
Not to interrupt but just to edify. There was a time we voted for everything. If you wanted to 
cough, we'd vote for that. So, I kind of appreciated it, since everybody signed on to the fact that 
we were going to allow more public comment. so, I just wanted to give you that background.  
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  78:50 
Thank you, Madam Chair. So, I agree. I think maybe there can be, I think we could be more 
clear about that. So, we can say you know, suspending the rules to allow people who have not 
signed up to speak. And maybe we can even have a little poll that first shows us how many 
people want to speak before we vote, so that we can have that information and decide whether 
given the businesses that's before us, whether we want to open it up like that. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  79:27 
On this, and eventually get back to me, but I wanted to comment -  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  79:30 
What I'm going to actually do is kind of reign this in and go back to the top of, because we're 
talking about all of 24, and it's getting a little confusing for me. So, I want you to speak, I think 
the clerk wants to say something, and then I'm going to go back to 24 and just take it 24 A, B, C 
so I can kind of follow the symmetry. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  79:47 
I have concerns about that, just because what I've seen in practice is that whether it's the 
School Committee or the Council, most councilors don't want to be the one to vote not to allow 
people to speak. And what happens is some councilors kind of stick to what the expectation is, 
and other councilors don't. And it ends up becoming actually a divisive conversation amongst 
the elected officials. I feel very strongly, for example, that I don't think - I never vote to suspend 
the rules to allow someone to speak on a late order, for example, because I think what happens 
with the late order is, if I'm filing a late order, I tell the people who support that order: "Oh, I'm 
filing this late order, come and speak to it." But if it's not on the agenda, other people don't 
know. And I've gotten into that situation on the School Committee tons of times last term where I 
would say, we shouldn't allow people to speak on a late order because it's not known to the 
public ahead of time. But committee members don't want to be the one to make someone upset. 
And so, then that one person, the chair normally, looks like they're the one trying to deny the 
people the right to speak. So, I think that gets really - unless we all agree on something, I think it 
gets really sticky in that regard, and I find it to actually create a lot of tension rather than make 
things easier. But I do want to make one amendment on this before -  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  81:12 
What I'm going to do, if there's no more discussion on how long we speak, or [how long] people 
speak in Public Comment, I'm going to take us back to rule 24A and go item by item, because 
it's getting it's bouncing back a little bit too much. Yes. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  81:29 
Through the chair, just for the edification of the Council. I noticed that there was a rule 24 CB 
which described the procedure by which a person could come and give public comment to the 

City of Cambridge 

Page 23 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

to the council. I suggested to the mayor last night, during Monday's meeting, that to allow 
people who haven't signed up to speak, you may want to suspend the rules to allow members to 
speak. I think that if you're going to have a rule in your rules, that is going to make requirement 
of individuals to make comments, then you do have to go through some sort of procedure to 
then deviate from them, whatever the rule happens to be, just for the edification of the Council. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  82:10 
And I think that's a good point. So, on Public Comment, is there any more discussion, because 
I'm going to take this back to rule 24A, just to take it procedurally through the items. Councillor 
Zondervan? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  82:22 
Yes, thank you, Madam Chair, and to the Clerk's point: I'm reading these rules, and I think it is 
unclear. It doesn't say that an individual who's not signed up for these rules isn't allowed to 
speak. So, I think we need to clarify that. I don't think we can necessarily resolve all this today, 
because there's a lot of thoughts about it, but I do think we need to be very clear about what's 
the rule, and then if we need to vote to suspend the rules. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  82:55 
I agree with you. I think Public Comment is such a big item and an important item, we might 
want to just pull it out, and I could appoint two people to work with me just to pull this out and 
make some real sustained recommendation. Because it's just so big. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  83:16 
And Madam Chair, I want to just add what I'm hearing is we have these two conflicting tensions, 
right? Either we're saying, just sign up between 5:30 and 6, or then we're leaving this other 
opportunity open. So, I don't think both can exist. I don't think both can exist. So, I think getting 
together with you and whomever from the committee, but the committee has to decide which 
way they want to be consistent.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  83:43 
I want us to move through this because this meeting I'm really trying to keep it to two hours. And 
we do have some recommendations that we're not taking up. Let's go through rule 24 as much 
as we can, and anything else that's left over I would ask two people to say let's sit down at 
another time before we call the next meeting to make recommendations on how you want to see 
Public Comment changed. Councillor Zondervan? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  83:53 
And thank you, Madam Chair. Just a point of order: I think we would still need to discuss it in 
committee because right now, if there's two members of the committee, that's a quorum. So, I 
agree that we should move through the agenda right now, but I think if we want to come back to 
this, we should either have another meeting or... 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  84:27 
There's two ways to do that. We could not adjourn this meeting, so this meeting is still going. 
And then, as long as we have two members, we can - so what I would say is: I will recess this 
meeting, just because we haven't adopted any changes, I'll recess this meeting, have two 
people come that want to sit down and flesh out this with the clerk and the solicitor, and then 
come back. And when we come back, we're not coming back to a new meeting, we're coming 
back out of a recess of this meeting. Am I within my jurisdiction to do that? 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 24 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

Nancy Glowa, City Solicitor  84:58 
Madam Chair, that sounds great. I've just been struggling a little bit with some of the tightened 
enforcement of the Open Meeting Law requirements by the Attorney General and the 
conversation about late orders and resolutions. I just wanted to bring to the committee's 
attention that I have a concern about allowing public comment on late orders and resolutions 
because the way the Attorney General has explained their interpretation of this, there should be 
discussion at the Council on matters that have been previously notified and posted to the public. 
So, if we're talking about a late order or resolution that was not in any way posted, then I would 
suggest that there not be public comment. And moreover, I believe the practice recently has 
been, quite properly, to read in their entirety, a late order or resolution at the time that they're 
being brought up when that agenda item is before the council, and that way, people who are 
either present can hear the entirely order or resolution, or if they're watching it on TV, either at 
home or later, they can hear what it is that the council is about to discuss. But if there's a late 
order or resolution that's not been posted, and people are commenting upon it, then people 
listening don't necessarily know what that's about. So, I wanted to encourage the committee to 
consider removing that from items that can be considered. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  86:43 
And where is it?  
 
Nancy Glowa, City Solicitor  86:44 
In 24C-1A, the list of things, the long paragraph we were just discussing. It seems to me to be 
saying that you can discuss, at the end of that next to last sentence, that you can discuss late 
policy orders and resolutions in Public Comment. And I would recommend deleting that from 
that list of items that are --  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  87:15 
I can't even find it. Okay, thank you. So, you're asking that be struck? Very good. Any 
discussion? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  87:30 
In this section, just so people know, because we're recessing this meeting, the mini-committee 
on this will also look at that again. So, this will come back to the small committee about striking 
and the reason why we strike it, and then when we come back and the full committee will say, 
we'll have a full explanation of why we're making the following recommendations. Councillor 
Zondervan? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  87:51 
Thank you, Madam Chair. Just in response to that, I think I understand the solicitor's concern. I 
guess, my question is: if we do delete that, then essentially there is no opportunity for the public 
to comment on late orders at all, which creates different problems. So, I'm not sure exactly how 
we would address that.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  88:16 
If I may say this, it says somewhere in these minutes that, not unless some late policy orders, if 
it's not an emergency, you shouldn't do it anyway. And I think that it speaks to Councillor 
McGovern's sentiment and mine that you can't talk about transparency and then have a late 
policy order, not unless it's an emergency. Resolutions? A little bit more flexibility. You know, 
you find out that your neighbor had a loss in their family and the funeral is on Wednesday and 
we're meeting on Monday. That, I think, justifies, not that you need to suspend the rules to do 
that.  

City of Cambridge 

Page 25 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  88:53 
But policy orders are a bigger deal because it says it speaks to this in the rules that even how 
you say what's a policy, and what's an order, and how it has to be presented, because you're 
changing the rules. So, I think we should always try to keep to the rules as much as possible. 
And if it's not an emergency, then we shouldn't even have a late policy order. If you bring the 
late policy order, and you say, I'm going to lay this on the table. So now you've done your due 
diligence, you brought in that late policy order, but you reserve the ability to really comment on it 
until the next meeting. Councillor, did you yield the floor? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  89:37 
Thank you, Madam Chair. I completely agree with you. I'm not suggesting otherwise. I'm just 
raising a concern that if there is a late policy order, and we remove it from this rule, then there is 
no opportunity for the public to comment on that policy order at all. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  89:55 
Maybe I misunderstand, Councillor Zondervan, and I look to the city solicitor. I thought she was 
saying  there's no public comment on that late policy order, not that you couldn't submit it. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  90:09 
Yeah, that's what I'm saying. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  90:11 
And I would just - on that two things: one, we can always move suspension. We do it all the time 
and change the rules and do that sort of, you know. But to be honest, I actually think it should 
be a rule that you can't speak. Because I've seen it abused so many times. You know, one 
person's emergency is another person's non-emergency. And what happens is, someone files a 
late order that they want to do X, and so then they tell all of their supporters, "I'm filing a policy 
order." So those people know about it. So, they come, and then that councilor says "I want to 
allow these people to speak on a late order," people feel compelled to let them do it because 
otherwise they get (in the press) that they're stifling first amendment rights. So, they say yes, 
and now you have only a certain group of people speaking in favor of a late policy order that 
nobody else knew about. It completely flies in the face of transparency; which we say we want 
to be about. So, I don't think we should allow it. And if there's a compelling reason, we always 
have suspension of the rules, and the motion maker can say, look, this is why I think this is 
different. And then we can, we can do that. But I really, I feel pretty strongly about this, I've seen 
it abused way too many times. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  91:34 
So Councillor, what we're going to do, and members of the committee, we're going to - let's get 
through rule 24, taking in as many changes or suggested changes as possible, knowing that this 
meeting is going to be recessed, and two of this body, including me - so three people from this 
body will kind of look at those recommendations and bring that back to when we when we have 
the meeting again, so Just because in the spirit of time, you have a number of suggestions to 
this council, Vice Mayor Mallon and myself, I want to make sure to get on the floor before we 
have to adjourn. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  92:10 
Madam Chair? I'm just have another amendment, which we may be able to do right now, but if 
not, put it in the queue for 24C 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 26 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

Councillor E. Denise Simmons  92:19 
What I'm saying is I want to put all of the conversation around it, and maybe just put it on the 
table so that we at least get through to the end of the docket.  
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  92:27 
So, one thing I think we should be clear about speakers, so people know: speakers are not 
allowed to cede their time to other speakers. Madam Chair, when you were mayor and we were 
on School Committee together, we would have during the Innovation Agenda conversation, I'm 
not kidding you, people would come with their five, six, and seven year old kids and say "I cede 
my time to my mother." And the person who has more friends would get 10 minutes to speak, 
and the person who didn't have anybody ceding their time would get three. And we just don't we 
don't allow it, we always say we should put it in the rule so that people know, so someone 
doesn't come with five people... So that would just be somewhere in 24C-1A, it can be tacked 
on anywhere: "Speakers are not allowed to cede their time to other speakers." 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  93:19 
And also, just to follow up on that point, it also says something about "I'm reading this letter from 
my dog Skippy." And that's always a little crazy place, you know, because how do I know that 
your dog Skippy really wanted that read into the record? And so, I would just say as we talk 
about this section, who has the authority to speak for someone who is not present? Anything 
else? Because I'm going to take us to the top or 24. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  93:48 
Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm still confused about process. So, I understand that the plan is to 
recess this meeting. I don't understand how three members of the committee could get together 
offline and work on this subject matter, because that would be a quorum of the committee. 
 
Nancy Glowa, City Solicitor  94:12 
Madam Chair, I think that's correct. So, you could post the meeting with a smaller group.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  94:18 
I could post the meeting and whoever comes as long as we have a quorum. And I wouldn't be 
strong-arming people that didn't sign up to work on this particular - and it will say the call was "to 
continue the discussion specific to rule 24A." So, on 24A, is there anything that talks about the 
order of the business? Does anyone see any changes? I wanted to add this: nowhere in the 
order of business does it say how you call the meeting to order. I don't know if that's an 
operational thing, Mr. Clerk, which talks about stating what the rules are, decorum, that kind of 
thing. It just says public Comment, it's like relative to the business. And so, I'm just asking, do 
we want to add to the call? It just says Public Comment, as if we didn't call the meeting to order 
at all. I want it to say, "Order of Business - call meeting to order, read the call, and the rules of 
decorum." That's what I would like to just add in so that everybody has the same standard. 
When you call a meeting, you say, you know, "The meeting of x, y, z. This is this is the reason 
why we're here. Relative to Public Comment, we do this." Does that need to be in the order? Or 
is it something that we...I think it should be as a part of the Order of Business so that everybody 
has the same standard? Mr. Clerk? 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  95:53 
So, I just want to want to wrap my hands around what you said Councillor Simmons. So, are 
you saying that...? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  96:01 

City of Cambridge 

Page 27 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

In the call as it's written, it just says "At every regular meeting of the City Council, except for 
roundtables, the order the business shall be as follows." And then it says Public Comment. And 
I'm saying the order of business will be as follows: "Call the meeting to order, introduce the 
rules, then Public Comment." 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  96:21 
I think that's up to the will of the Council as to how they want to go through their meetings. I 
think currently it's structured - the order of business is structured in terms of potential legislative 
actions by the Council. So, the meeting goes to public comment, reading of the record from the 
previous meetings. But yes, I would think that the Order of the Business? That can be structured 
based on the will of the Council, whatever the body feels is most appropriate. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  96:55 
So, then my question, we'll take this up in a more robust manner at the continuation of this 
meeting, is one of the things I'm looking for is continuity and consistency that meetings should 
all follow the same order for a couple of reasons. One, as you move through the cycle, anyone 
that ascends to the chair of the mayor, this is good place to get the experience on how to 
properly run a meeting. So that's number one. Number two, that everyone that comes to the 
meeting has the same expectation because the meetings are always run the same way. I've sat 
in meetings, and I'll be brief because we're running on a time, where the chair of the meeting 
says, "Okay, let's get started." There was really no call to get the meeting to start. And then at 
the meeting, they said "Okay, we're all done." Okay, let's adjourn, and everybody got up and left 
the room. The meeting was improperly adjourned. And so, I just think it's those little nuances 
that are not correct procedural form that we carry through the way we run meetings even at the 
highest level, which is a business meeting at the City Council. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  98:01 
I'm sorry, Madam Chair. If you're referring to the order instructions of committee meetings, then 
I would think would be, I guess adding those types of instructions to rule 27 or in the section. 
The next section is on page seven, Start Communication to Committees. And those rules 
specifically address the operations of committees. So, if its rules about how the committees 
should run their meetings, I think presumably -- 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  98:28 
I think that should be okay. I could concede to that. I just want order. That's what I'm basically 
asking. Symmetry, transparency, and predictability. You know what to expect when you come 
because the meetings are all run the same way. So, the Clerk says in terms of how the council 
committees run, that that change should been put on Number 27. And if there's no objection to 
that, I would like to add that. Alright, so there's no objection will go forward. 24B? Yes? What? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  99:12 
Alright, point of order. I'm not clear what we're adding to what? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  99:15 
So, I had said I wanted to add some expectations, for lack of a better word to call it, in the 
meetings in terms of the order of the business, particularly that the committee meetings should 
mirror how business meetings of the council are run. The Clerk says that should be added to 
rule 27. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  99:38 

City of Cambridge 

Page 28 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

Correct. And I agree with the Clerk. However, it's not clear to me where in rule 27 we would add 
that right now. So, I guess my suggestion would be, let's wait till we get to rule  27 to discuss 
that. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  99:55 
That's what the other thing that we can do too. So, I will yield it on  24A, and move it to 24, and 
I'll have the Clerk remind me when we get there. 
 
Nancy Glowa, City Solicitor  100:04 
Madam Chair. I'm a little confused also. So, looking at 24A, on page five at the top, I thought 
you were talking about perhaps adding to the rules before Public Comment: "announced call of 
the meeting, make statement about rules." And then at the end of that list, after 
announcements, add adjournment. So that the council would vote to adjourn, which would be 
the proper way to adjourn the meeting. And at the beginning, when you had talked about 
wanting to announce the call the meeting before Public Comment, you could put that in that list 
of items if that's what you were getting at.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  100:51 
Thank you. Thanks for reminding me. So, if I can bring your attention back to 24. What I was 
asking not only that the committees did it - so in here, it looks like we open the meeting with 
Public Comment, as opposed to a Call to Order. So, I wanted to put that in the rules, and then 
announce how our meetings are operated. And then at the end, you see it says announcements 
but doesn't say you adjourn. Everybody on board with that? Okay. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  101:27 
Not only do we do the Call of the Meeting first, but typically we do the accepting the minutes 
before Public Comment. Right? So those just need to be changed in the order. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  101:41 
You're right, it doesn't say - it says, "reading of the record," and I guess that is supposed to be 
where we adopt the minutes and we need to make that more clear."  
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  101:51 
We usually do that before Public Comment. So, in this list, we should flip those.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  101:56 
Alright, so we're going to flip -  
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  101:58 
Point of clarification? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  102:01 
I just want to go back to Councillor McGovern. And so, you want to take number two, which just 
says "reading of the record," if request, and say "adoption of the record" before Public 
Comment, because that's usually where it happens.  
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  102:14 
Yeah, I mean, honestly, we could do Public Comment first. I don't necessarily think we have to 
accept the minutes first. But we need to be consistent. If the rules in here say we're going to call 
the meeting and then Public Comment is going to happen before anything else, that's fine. But 
that's not how we do it. That's not how we do it, so they need to jive. 

City of Cambridge 

Page 29 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  102:36 
Right. Either follow the rules or change the rules to mimic what we do. Councillor Zondervan? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  102:41 
Thank you, Madam Chair. I would like clarification on what exactly "reading of the record if 
requested by the City Council means." 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  102:48 
I don't even know. I took that as it was the adoption of the minutes. That's why it's a very good 
point that it says reading of the record, which I assume is the minutes, and we adopt the 
minutes, we don't read them, and we do it before we go into Public Comment, I believe. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  103:04 
So, can we get clarification from the solicitor or the clerk as to what that actually means? 
 
Nancy Glowa, City Solicitor  103:10 
I would defer to the clerk. I don't know what it means either. So, my recommendation would be 
to just change that, Number two, to adopt minutes of prior meetings. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  103:23 
I'm an agreement. So, I read those rules and I assumed that meant the adoption of the record. I 
think the council probably should change that rule to be the adoption of previous minutes of the 
City Council, whatever the language is, and place it where the council believes is appropriate in 
its order of...  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  103:41 
In order sequence as typically. I want to welcome Vice Mayor Mallon to the meeting. Thank you 
for joining us. Is there anything else in terms of the order of business? So, we're going to make 
some modification, we're going to have call to order because that's what we do. We're going to 
add adoption of the minutes and strike reading of the record and we're going to put that before 
Public Comment, as is our procedures, what we just normally do. And then at the very end 
number 15, will be added and that's going to be adjournment. Okay, very good. Vice Mayor, 
we're just going through the rules. Do you have a copy of the rules with you? Do you need a 
copy? Okay, we'll get you a copy. And it's online as well. We are at 24B - any changes? None? 
 
Councillor Denise Simmons  104:43 
24C. We talked a little bit about this. In terms of striking the late policy orders and resolutions. 
Were there any other changes? 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler  105:03 
I had talked a little bit about under 24C-1A adding a line -  and I incorporated the suggestion 
from a couple other councilors: if 20 or more speakers have signed up for Public Comment 
before the start of the meeting, each speaker shall limit their comments to no more than two 
minutes. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  105:19 
Very good. So that is a change being recommended by Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler. Are you 
introducing that as a formal motion? 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler  105:28 

City of Cambridge 

Page 30 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

I will submit that as a motion. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  105:29 
There is a motion on the floor by Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler to amend 24CA to read 
something to the effect "In the event there are 20 or more speakers signed speakers signed up, 
that the amount of time allocated would be two minutes." Discussion. All those in favor say aye. 
Opposed? The ayes have it and that motion has been adopted. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  105:56 
And then I will just formerly do a motion that speakers are not allowed to cede their time to other 
speakers. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  106:05 
Okay, so also Councillor McGovern puts on the table for a vote: "Stopping the practice of 
allowing a person to come and say I cede my time to so and so and so."  Does everyone 
understand that?  Discussion? Hearing none, on the motion by Councillor McGovern, all those 
in favor say aye. Opposed? The ayes have it, and the changed is being offered.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  106:36 
Okay, we talked about public comment. So now there's that - Councillor Zondervan.  
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  106:43 
Thank you, Madam Chair. Are we striking late policy orders and resolutions as well? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  106:51 
Striking resolutions? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  106:53 
Late policy orders and resolutions on 24C-1A. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  106:59 
I have - yes, strike it. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  107:06 
I'll move that we strike late policyholders and resolutions. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  107:11 
On a motion by Councillor McGovern to strike the second to last line. I think the second the last 
line. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  107:21 
It's part of the second to last sentence but specifically we're taking late policy orders and 
resolutions. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  107:31 
We're just striking the late policy orders and resolutions. So why don't we just say that? To strike 
late policy orders and resolutions - discussion?  
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  107:43 
And the "and" before it.  
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 31 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

Councillor E. Denise Simmons  107:45 
And the what? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  107:47 
The word "and" before "late policy orders." 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  107:49 
Well I struck it in my - "and late policies and resolutions from other city offices," period. All those 
in favor say Aye. Opposed? The ayes have it, the change has been adopted. 24-1B? We said 
we're going to change the online from nine to three to nine to six.  
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey  108:17 
If it's possible, on this one here, I think this is so important for the public to be aware of what 
we're doing. I made some suggestions that we're having a better system of someone outside 
the council office directly helping people. You know, when a lot of people we've seen certainly 
the council office, as I said, the two staff getting ready for the council meeting. A lot of members 
of the public who come in who are not as computer savvy as others, and I count myself as one 
of those people, and they have very difficult time trying to sign up online and it creates a line, 
and someone has to help them. So, I really think if there was a way to just hold this one and 
have a more full discussion on just how this whole process should be. I think that really needs to 
be reformed. I think it's important that we hear from the public, but we want the public to know, 
you know, that they're welcome here and how they can participate. I just think this here needs 
further discussion. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  109:26 
I agree. I agree. What I think you're talking about is not quite but a little bit like hospitality, which 
may not be a procedural piece. So, I would ask that we make the change in line three from nine 
to three to nine to six. And to your question about how do we operationalize signing for public 
comment, this smaller group of folks bring back a recommendation saying, We changed the 
rules to reflect this, we might say the public will sign up through the page or the - you know, we'll 
operationalize that, because I think the two are a little bit different. So, I want to take you back 
to, if you yield the floor, are you yielding the floor now?  
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey  110:06 
Just to follow what you're saying the operation part of this is like, especially if it's a first-time 
person coming into City Hall, because we know at the beginning of the meeting there's a crowd 
in front of the chamber doors. And so, you don't know which way to go to, and you might get a 
little intimidated and say, "Well, maybe I'm not." So, I just think we have to have a better 
operational way of welcoming the public who probably never stepped foot in City Hall into that, 
you know, "this is your time for public comment, this is your place." And I just don't think, you 
know, the people who come in, they know exactly what to do. But someone new coming in the 
doors can feel very intimidated and not sure or feel embarrassing that they're not as aware of 
other people. So, I just think that has to be a more, I don't want to repeat the word "welcoming," 
but it has to be more inviting. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  111:02 
Thank you. Councillor Zondervan. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  111:05 

City of Cambridge 

Page 32 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

Thank you, Madam Chair. I do agree with Councillor Toomey. However, I don't think we would 
capture that in the rules. I think the rule change we're proposing is via telephone on Mondays 
from 9am to 5pm. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  111:21 
Five or six? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  111:23 
Yeah, I would say five, because the staff needs to prepare for the meeting to start at 5:30 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  111:31 
Very good. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  111:33 
Naomie is over there giving me the six signal. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  111:39 
Ms. Stephan, why don't you take a seat at the table? See, Councillor Zondervan is making a 
way for you. Thank you for joining us. 
 
Naomie Stephen, Executive Assistant to the City Council  112:00 
I think 6pm, because so many people don't make it here by five. So then when you have people 
that are coming in later, they can still sign up even though the meetings already started. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  112:12 
Discussion? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  112:14 
So that's already provided for in, "on Mondays between five and six, a computer terminal will be 
available to the public in City Council office for online sign up." So, what we're discussing now is 
by telephone, so if someone were to call the office after five to sign up, versus if they came in 
person, they would sign up via the computer. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  112:43 
Not to speak for our executive, but I think what she's saying: if you're in transit and you have 
access to a computer, and you know you may not get here at the 11th hour, it gives you to the 
11th hour, but I'm not speaking for her. I mean, did you want to discuss? 
 
Naomie Stephen, Executive Assistant to the City Council  112:59 
Are you talking about the break between three and five? If someone calls in? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  113:05 
No, we're saying that we would change the rules so that someone could sign up by telephone 
until 5pm. And then after 5pm, in person at the public, at the City Council office, using the 
computer. 
 
Naomie Stephen, Executive Assistant to the City Council  113:22 
Yes, I think that makes sense, particularly if you add, like sort of making the kiosk or signing up 
improves, and if there's an extra hand to help with it. What ends up happening primarily now is 
there's a crowd that forms at five o'clock, and there's typically only one person in the office. 
Another change that we've asked for is - the thing that takes the most time as people never 

City of Cambridge 

Page 33 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

know where in the agenda, what they're signing up to speak on, is. So, we've asked for IT to 
look into creating as a drop down on the sign-in page, so that they're already pre-loaded and 
then they just are clicking on their thing, as opposed to trying to figure out where the agenda is 
and if it's even on the agenda sometimes. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  114:10 
Thank you. So, the change is till five now, and not till six. It says, "in which must sign in to speak 
before the City Council via telephone to the City Council office on Mondays from 9am to five." 
Correct? Any further discussion? Miss Glowa? Were you itching to say something? Okay. Any 
other changes in that part? Do I need a motion? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  114:33 
So, moved. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  114:34 
So, on a motion by Councillor Zondervan to change rule 24 C section A under 1-B to the third 
sentence from three o'clock to five o'clock. All those in favor? Aye? Thank you. Opposed? The 
ayes have it and the change has been adopted. We're now to Roundtable Working Meetings. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  115:04 
Madam Chair, and I apologize, I do have to leave right at 12. On this, over the last few years, 
we have gradually moved towards televising Roundtables. We used to not do it at all, then we 
would do some of them, and now it's at the request, it has to be put in the policy order. I just 
think we should televise all Roundtables and working meetings for a whole host of reasons. But 
I can explain if there's questions. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  115:32 
No, because we only have five minutes, and what I'm going to suggest is that I want to read the 
changes that my colleagues have put forward onto the record so that when we do our work, we 
can continue. So, on number two, because they - and then we have Public Comment that we 
haven't gotten to. Not unless, I can also entertain a motion to extend the meeting for another 15 
minutes, which will also help us. So, let's go back to what's in front of us. Did you want to speak 
on this piece? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  116:04 
Yes. So, I believe we changed the rules so that all meetings in the chamber are video recorded. 
I don't know if that applies to Roundtable working meeting -  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  116:15 
It doesn't.  
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  116:17 
I think that would be where we would change that. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  116:23 
I would, Madam Chair through you, I would think - I don't know I guess I would look to the City 
Solicitor. I would imagine we would put it under the Roundtable portion, where we talk about, I 
guess it could go either place or both.   
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  116:41 
So, where's? 

City of Cambridge 

Page 34 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  116:44 
If I may, just for the edification, because I don't believe that the auto video recording is in the 
rules. I believe it was a policy order. So, I don't think it's something that's in the rules.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  116:54 
Okay, very good. Councillor McGovern, so you're asking still to make? 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  117:01 
I'm asking that we add to 24 C2: "All Roundtables, working meetings will be televised." 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  117:10 
Want to put "when possible," and the reason why I say that is what if the Roundtable's not here? 
What if we took a Roundtable or working meeting outside in the community. So, if you say, "Will 
be televised," you've boxed yourself to where you'll have it. Councillor Zondervan? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  117:26 
Thank you, Madam Chair. I guess again, I would suggest that rather than doing it here we made 
a rule change to codify our practice that all meetings of the City Council in Sullivan Chamber are 
televised, because this is where we have the equipment in order to do that. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  117:47 
I wouldn't say Sullivan Chamber, because sometimes we're in the School Committee chamber 
so, that's why the "when possible" makes more sense. You said all meetings in the Sullivan 
Chamber, but we take our show on the road, not very often, but once in a while where there is 
filming capability. So why not just say "when possible?" 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  118:05 
Yeah, so we could do both. We could say "In Sullivan Chamber or, if possible, in a different 
location." But that creates a clear expectation that if it's in the chamber, it will be televised. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  118:16 
I have no disagreement; I just don't want to box us in. Miss Glowa.  
 
Nancy Glowa, City Solicitor  118:20 
Madam Chair, I was going to suggest that we look back to rule 18 Regular Meetings, because 
that's the section that talks about when meetings are held, and you could put in a sentence at 
the end of that first paragraph that says - or you could put it at the end of the section that says -  
"All regular meetings, as well as Roundtables/special meetings of the city council, shall be 
televised, unless technically infeasible." 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  119:00 
If I may, just to piggyback on the Solicitor, on section 24 C, specifically talking about public 
comments, I don't know if that would be the appropriate place to talk about. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  119:08 
So Councillor McGovern, given what we know which we change it to the appropriate section, 
and the only discussion now is it's "all Roundtables will be, and working meetings will be 
televised." My only concern is that what if we use it shall be, and I just want to have enough 
wiggle room that if the Roundtable were in the community, it certainly could be filmed, but it 
couldn't be recorded live. I want some language in there that allows us that flexibility. That's why 

City of Cambridge 

Page 35 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

I said, "when possible." Or however, when technically possible. Councillor McGovern, any more 
on that? Councillor Zondervan? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  119:49 
Thank you, Madam Chair. I agree. And again, I would suggest that we put in "when held in the 
Sullivan Chamber" or if possible - that we add "when held in the Sullivan Chamber or if possible, 
elsewhere" and that we add committee meetings as well, because that's also already the 
practice. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  120:11 
Committee meetings are already in the rules to be televised. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  120:14 
It's just our practice now that any meeting of the City Council in this chamber is televised so we 
would just capture that in our rules and then add that if it's being held elsewhere, if it's 
technically feasible, that we would also broadcast it or video record it. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  120:40 
I would just ask for clarity from the Chair on what the motion is before the body. I currently have 
all meetings of the City Council, Roundtable/working meetings be televised when technically 
possible. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  120:54 
Madam Chair, I will rescind that because we've determined this is not the appropriate section to 
put it in, and when we ever get to that appropriate section, I will make it again. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  121:06 
Okay, so we have two minutes in this meeting that was supposed to go for two hours. So, 
before we do anything else, I'd like a motion to extend the meeting for a half an hour with a stop 
at 12:20 to allow for Public Comment. Because otherwise we're rolling right to the 12:30. First of 
all, can members, so there's the motion to extend the meeting. Discussion? Can people not do 
that? Because if we're going to lose quorum or the body, then we should just go right to Public 
Comment, recess the meeting, and I'll reschedule without - and I will just make another motion 
that the changes be put into the record. So that can be taken up at the next meeting. So, I need 
to extend the meeting first. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  121:50 
Thank you, Madam Chair. So, I agree, and I don't see anyone for Public Comment. We can 
certainly - 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  121:56 
Mr. Hawkinson feels compelled to speak. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  121:59 
So Yeah, I would support a motion to have Public Comment and then recess the meeting until 
the next possible time. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  122:08 
Okay. So, there's a motion by Councillor Zondervan to go to Public Comment and then recess 
the meeting, that a meeting will be called as soon as possible to pick up the items where we left 
off but also to formally have the committee accept the suggestions that were put forward. So 

City of Cambridge 

Page 36 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

that's before us as well. So, on the motion to extend the meeting long enough to have Public 
Comments and to have the suggestions of my colleagues added to the record for discussion at 
the meeting when it resumes. All those in favor say Aye. Opposed? The ayes have it. We will go 
to Public Comment, after which we will recess. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  123:01 
Please give your name and address for the record. 
 
John Hawkinson  123:03 
Thank you, Madam Chair, John Hawkinson, 84 Mass Ave. It was my intention to address you 
primarily regarding quorums. But quite a number of I think important issues came up during your 
discussion and thank you for having it. So, I'd want to just touch on those quickly. I think most 
importantly, this question of the reduction of time for Public Comment from three minutes to two 
minutes, when there are more than 20 speakers, it's a really, really big deal. A lot of people 
have difficulty articulating their comments, their speech, fitting it into three minutes. And that's 
the nature of things. Not everyone is a professional speaker. And I think pushing it to two will 
make it extremely challenging for many people, and maybe at the point of abrogating their rights 
to express themselves and I would urge the council to look at it very, very carefully. And 
certainly, to billboard it clearly that it's coming, maybe present at the public meeting of the 
council that you've been under consideration in a really explicit way before adopting that sort of 
change. Because I think it's very important.  
 
John Hawkinson  123:04 
Also, with respect to the question of addressing late items, I want to remind the council that the 
charter under Section 98 provides that the rules of the City Council shall provide the citizens 
and employees of the city a reasonable opportunity to be heard at any such meeting in regard to 
any matter considered there at, so I think a rule change that bars speaking to late items, 
essentially is a charter problem. And so, I think you should look very carefully at that. Smaller 
items: with respect to this question of personalities and naming councilors, I think, urge you to 
be very careful with the First Amendment, which you know, requires you to have only 
reasonable time, place, and manner restrictions on the speech of the public and saying that the 
public can't reference a particular councilor by name when that's really the only practical way to 
explain some event that's of relevance and pertinent to business before the council is really 
troubling. I don't think that's what personalities and Robert's Rules means. I understand the 
council has interpreted it differently than I have. But I don't think that's what it means. It means 
essentially try to avoid saying names where you can, but where you must.  
 
John Hawkinson  125:11 
And I have some other comments, I'll put them in writing because I think that you'll be meeting 
again. But with respect to quorums, what I really want to address you on, I think the change a 
couple of sessions ago to two member quorums for subcommittee meetings was extremely ill 
advised. It means no single councilor can speak with any other single councilor about business 
before a committee. And while you can quibble about what's business with our committee, most 
stuff is business before some committee. And furthermore, it sets the expectation that 
councilors are not required to attend their committee meetings. Only two people are required for 
a committee of five. I think the expectation ought to be that all members should attend meetings 
where practical. Of course, that won't always be the case. But it should be at the expectation 
and the goal and lowering the quorum from nominally three for a committee of five to two really 
hurts that expectation. So, I would strongly urge the council to revert the change made, I think it 
was two sessions ago. And to return the quorums, to three, or whatever the appropriate is for 

City of Cambridge 

Page 37 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 4, 2020 

the number of committees that have more than five members, it's different, but half plus one, 
roughly.  Thank you for your attention. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  126:23 
Thank you for your comments. By the vote of the members, the voting members presents, we 
agreed that we would recess the meeting after public comment.  Does recess require a motion? 
On a motion to recess by, the motion is by Councillor McGovern. All those in favor say aye. 
Opposed? The ayes have... Can I rescind that?  Did I also say that the information from this 
previous meeting would be forwarded? Thank you. Alright. So, all those in favor say aye. 
Opposed, no. The ayes have it. The meeting is recessed to a time that will be set by the chair.  
Thank you for your attention. 
 

1.  A communication was received from Councillor Mallon regarding the City Council rules 

2.  A communication was received from Councillor  Quinton Zondervan regarding  changes to the City 

RESULT: 

PLACED ON FILE 

Council Rules 

RESULT: 

PLACED ON FILE 

City of Cambridge 

Page 38 

  

