PUBLIC SAFETY COMMITTEE 

COMMITTEE MEETING 

~ MINUTES ~ 

 

 

 

  Tuesday, July 7, 2020 

1:00 PM 

Sullivan Chamber 

 

  Call to Order 

Attendee Name 
Dennis J. Carlone 

Alanna Mallon 

Marc C. McGovern 

Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler 

Quinton Zondervan 

 

 

Present 

Absent 

Late 

Arrived 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

The Public Safety Committee will meet to discuss the Cambridge Police Department's Use of Force 
Policy and related matters. 
 
Councillor Zondervan called the meeting to order. He then opened the floor to public comment. 
 
Ilan Levy, 148 Spring Street, stated his hope that the council could actually discuss defunding the police 
while keeping in mind that this is not a discussion about people but about a system that is at its root racist. 
He stated that the police are by definition enforcing and policing that systemic racism. He said he hopes 
that we can find a solution that actually takes away from the oppressive, systemic white privilege that is 
ingrained in the police system we have. He stated that he is looking forward to a productive discussion 
and something innovative which can actually help others who don’t have the financial resources that 
Cambridge has. 
 
Kim Courtney, 39 Cedar Street, stated that use of force takes on many forms of abuse of power, not just 
physical. She stated that intimidation tactics in violation of the civil rights of Cambridge citizens 
constitutes the use of force. She stated that Commissioner Bard uses his position on the liquor license 
board as a tool to abuse his power. 
 
Councillor Zondervan interjected to remind the speaker to only discuss matters related to the Call to 
Order of the meeting. 
 
Ms. Courtney stated that this was indeed about the use of force and accusing law-abiding citizens of 
having committed crimes and penalizing their business based on made up/unwritten laws, in violation of 
their civil rights and purely for the purpose of harassment and intimidation. She stated that Commissioner 
Bard has proven that he is not worthy of his position. 
 
Xavier Dietrich, 39 Cedar Street, stated that Commissioner Bard should be fired before Councillor 
Zondervan interjected to remind the speaker to only discuss matters related to the Call to Order of the 
meeting and to avoid using personalities. When Mr. Dietrich continued to discuss matters unrelated to the 
Call to Order, his microphone was muted, and the rest of his time was forfeited. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Last Updated: 12/31/2020 11:24 AM 

cambridgema.gov  

Minutes 

Public Safety Committee 

July 7, 2020 

 

 

 

 

Yea 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 

Nay 
 
 
 
 
 

Absent 
 
 
 
 
 

Present 
 
 
 
 
 

Councillor Zondervan moved to 
close public comment 
 
Councillor Carlone 
Vice Mayor Mallon 
Councillor McGovern 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler 
Councillor Zondervan 
 
 
Councillor Zondervan welcomed Mayor Siddiqui and Councillor Nolan. 
 
Councillor Zondervan stated his belief that the Use of Force Policy document does not encompass all uses 
of force. He said it would be helpful to have a single, consolidated document. He also noted that 
Commissioner Bard had since issued an amendment modifying one of the policies, which has been 
incorporated into his analysis.  
 
Councillor Zondervan opened the floor to Richard Harding, 189 Windsor Street, community member and 
former School Committee Member. 
 
Mr. Harding stated that Cambridge has an opportunity to look at its policing. The City should keep what 
is working and remove what is not working. He stated that Cambridge has done a better job at addressing 
policing than other parts of the country, but many residents are not comfortable with police. He stated that 
Cambridge could be a national leader on police reform.  
 
Mr., Harding stated that the current Police Commissioner is positioned to be able to accept and implement 
reforms. He believed that the Commissioner embraces this challenge and that the community wants 
transformative change. He stated that restructuring what the police do, and their resources is germane to 
the conversation. 
 
In response to a question from Vice Mayor Mallon about no-knock warrants, Commissioner Bard stated 
that, in Massachusetts, prior to gaining entry or being able to execute a search warrant, police are required 
to knock and announce their identity and their purpose, giving a reasonable amount of time for a 
response. He says that under certain conditions police may forgo that knocking if weapons are on a 
premise to be searched, if there’s a proven history of violence for the person present, if the likelihood of 
escape of the person will be triggered, or if there’s imminent destruction of evidence. He stated that he 
provided input regarding a bill currently being considered by the legislature to ban no-knock warrants in 
Massachusetts. He suggested that the bill include an exception when an officer’s safety is in danger.  
 
Vice Mayor Mallon stated that no-knock warrants have received a lot of attention lately because of the 
death of Breonna Taylor and the fact that there was a no-knock warrant used in her case. She stated that it 
is important for state and local governments to take every action necessary to prevent similar incidents 
from occurring. 
 
The vice mayor stated that officer safety is a very broad category. She asked for suggestions about how to 
appropriately limit its application. 
 
Commissioner Bard said that banning no-knock warrants will not prevent another Breonna Taylor from 
happening. He stated that as long as humans are involved, these tragic mistakes can happen. He stated 

City of Cambridge 

Page 2 

cambridgema.gov  

Minutes 

Public Safety Committee 

July 7, 2020 

that where there is fresh and actionable intelligence that weapons are on the premise and that they will be 
used against law enforcement a no-knock warrant should be permitted. 
 
Samuel Sinyangwe, co-founder of the Campaign Zero Police Scorecard, stated that police reform includes 
shrinking the role of the police. He said that experts, not police should be responding to situations like 
mental health crises, homelessness, substance abuse and other social ills. 
 
Mr. Sinyangwe said that there is very little research on how you address issues like police violence in 
general. The most solid research suggests that police departments that adopt more restrictive standards for 
use of force are less likely to shoot people and less likely to kill people. Campaign Zero Police Scorecard 
has eight policy restrictions on the use of force that it recommends police departments adopt. The 
Cambridge Police department policies already align with six of the recommendations. 
 
Mr. Sinyangwe said that the first policy requires police officers to exhaust all alternatives available to 
them prior to using deadly force. He said that the Cambridge Police Department does have this policy in 
place. Mr. Sinyangwe said that similarly, the Cambridge Police Department has in place a policy 
requiring officers to give a verbal warning before using deadly force. He said that in the deadly force 
section of the policy it says when practical, prior to discharging a firearm, officers shall identify 
themselves as law enforcement and state their intention to shoot.  
 
Mr. Sinyangwe said that similarly, there is a ban on chokeholds and strangleholds. He said that while only 
about 28 of the hundred largest cities have this ban in place, the Cambridge Police Department does have 
a ban that covers both chokeholds and carotid control holds, otherwise known as strangleholds, which 
block the blood flow to the brain. 
 
Mr. Sinyangwe said that the fourth policy requires comprehensive reporting. He said that one of the areas 
that is least often reported by cities is when an officer points a firearm at somebody without discharging 
it. He said that the Cambridge Police Department does have a comprehensive use of force reporting 
policy that includes both pointing firearms as well as weapon lists and force involving weapons. 
 
Mr. Sinyangwe said that the fifth policy restricts the higher levels of force to the most extreme situations 
and clearly defines what types of tactics and tools can be used in particular situations. He said that 
Cambridge Police Department has an overall use of force policy that's fairly general, but it also has 
specific policies around the use of OC spray or pepper spray, and less lethal impact munitions. He said 
that these policies could probably be strengthened, with more specific guidance around the level of 
resistance or threat that could justify particular types of force.  
 
Mr. Sinyangwe said that the sixth policy that the Cambridge Police Department has is a duty to intervene. 
He said that this is a recently adopted policy which requires officers to intervene when they witness 
another officer using excessive force.  
 
Mr. Sinyangwe recommended a ban on shooting at people in moving vehicles. He said the best practice 
policy recommendation in this area is either a categorical ban on all shooting at people in moving vehicles 
or a restriction that deadly force can only be authorized at a moving vehicle when a person is using deadly 
force against an officer or a civilian, by means other than the vehicle. He said that the research is clear 
that shooting at moving vehicles is one of the most dangerous tactics that a police officer can use.  
 
Mr. Sinyangwe stated that the Cambridge Police Department's current Use of Force Policy allows officers 
to shoot at moving vehicles when the occupants of the vehicle are using it to employ or exert deadly force 
against the officer or another victim. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 3 

cambridgema.gov  

Minutes 

Public Safety Committee 

July 7, 2020 

Mr. Sinyangwe recommended de-escalation. He said that 44 out of the hundred largest cities in the US 
have a policy explicitly requiring officers to use de-escalation prior to using any type of force. He said 
that in the Cambridge Police Department Use of Force Policy, there is no mention of de-escalation.  
 
Commissioner Bard responded that in the Cambridge Use of Force Policy, due to the risk of injury to 
innocent bystanders, it is strictly prohibited to shoot at a fleeing vehicle or at a vehicle that is going away 
from the officer and is no longer an immediate threat. He stated that officers must be mindful that a bullet 
may be unable to penetrate a metal or glass surface of an automobile, resulting in ricochet and injury to 
innocent people. Commissioner Bard stated that he intended the policy to account for a situation in which 
a person rammed a vehicle into a crowd of people with the intent to do harm. Commissioner Bard 
referenced several portions of the use of force policy that require de-escalation.  
 
In response to a question from Councillor Zondervan about the use of force document Commissioner 
Bard stated that it would be impossible to put everything into a single document. Instead there is a main 
Use of Force Policy (400.01) and then there are individual policies for things like use of the baton and OC 
spray, which fall under the umbrella of the main policy.  
 
Councillor Zondervan encouraged the Commissioner to find some way to consolidate the policies into a 
single document, potentially by reference. 
 
Commissioner Bard said he could provide all of the use of force policies. 
 
In response to a question from Councillor McGovern about clearly stating the policies, Commissioner 
Bard said that the policy is already clearly stated. He says it requires officers to use only the least amount 
of force and it does require de-escalation. He will add the language in the overarching policy.  
 
Councillor McGovern encouraged the Commissioner to make the use of force policies clearer. He stated 
that he struggles with how to best craft policies that allow flexibility but also hold the police accountable. 
 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler also encouraged the Commissioner to add de-escalation to the overarching 
policy. He also questioned the wisdom of allowing police to shoot at vehicles driving through crowds. 
 
Mr. Sinyangwe said the NYPD prohibits officers from shooting at moving vehicles but that the 
prohibition will be reviewed on a case by case basis in the instances where there is a vehicle ramming 
attack, defined as a vehicle attempting to cause multiple casualties. He said the current Cambridge Police 
Department pepper spray policy first says that officers can employ pepper spray if necessary, and then the 
next step in that continuum, is to de-escalate. He said that other policies do not require officers to de-
escalate situations whenever possible, it merely asks them to consider a range of options. He says that 
even a generous reading of all of the policies does not entail a de-escalation requirement in all situations 
whenever possible.  
 
Councillor Carlone encourages the Commissioner to draft a memo that clearly explained the use of force 
policy for the public. 
 
Commissioner Bard said that Cambridge already has New York's policy on banning shooting at moving 
vehicles. He said he had been trying to explain that they had been looking to edit that policy even further 
to make sure that officers can't create the urgency by jumping in front of a moving vehicle, and then using 
that as a justification. He said he was just trying to explain why that additional change wasn’t made, even 
though they were looking to incorporate the new phenomena. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 4 

cambridgema.gov  

Minutes 

Public Safety Committee 

July 7, 2020 

In response to a question from Councillor Zondervan about explicitly forbidding the force used against 
George Floyd, Commissioner Bard explained that officers are prohibited from choke holds regardless of 
body position. 
 
Councillor McGovern encouraged the council to view the training that police officers actually receive. 
 
Mr. Harding challenged the Commissioner to understand that part of this is about restoring the confidence 
in the police. He described several troubling interactions between police and members of the public. 
 
Commissioner Bard stated that accountability starts from the top down. He said that officers are subject to 
departmental violations and criminal liability and penalties if they are found to have falsified 
documentation. He said that anyone who is found to have done that will be submitted to the District 
Attorney's office for criminal review.  
 
Superintendent Elow said the police department has done a lot of training on procedural justice and 
legitimacy to address the question of what should happen when someone questions the authority of an 
officer. She explained that use of force reports have to go through many layers of supervisory approval 
before internal affairs, which looks at who is having a difficult time de-escalating situations and resorting 
to force or arrest for low level offenses. She said that police do not want to be using force when it comes 
to people in crisis calls, they need to get people the help they need and then follow up to make sure they 
are okay and not in crisis.  
 
Commissioner Bard said he doesn’t want anyone to rest on his word with respect to 8 Can’t Wait because 
it is important to incorporate the voice of the advocates, whether it be the ACLU or Mr. Sinyangwe. He 
said that assuming Mr. Sinyangwe is amenable to it, he will reach out to him after the meeting and make 
sure he is given an opportunity to review what is being proposed to see if it is in line with what Campaign 
Zero is suggesting. He said he always welcomes the advocates voice because it helps him put out a better 
and more trustworthy product. 
 
In response to a question from Councillor Zondervan about how use of force incidents are investigated, 
Superintendent Elow explained that after a use of force incident, a supervisor is required to respond. She 
said that every officer that was present has to fill out a use of force report whether they used force or just 
witnessed it. She stated that reports are reviewed by the shift commander, the deputy superintendent, the 
superintendent, professional standards, and then a deputy superintendent does the final signoff before it 
goes to the commissioner. She said that every single use of force or arrest that we have goes through that 
process. She said they look for officers who have a difficult time defusing situations which result in low 
level arrests like disorderly conduct. She said those are trigger arrests that make them ask what is going 
on. 
 
Councillor McGovern encouraged the Commissioner to publish as much information as possible about 
how officers are held accountable for violating policies. 
 
Commissioner Bard says the police department utilizes software that acts as an early warning system and 
the department can set certain thresholds. He said if he sets the threshold at three complaints, then any 
combination of use of force by and complaints against a police officer that adds up to three would trigger 
a review of an individual’s activity. He said he can remember doing that on at least two occasions.  
 
Councillor McGovern encouraged the Commissioner to share as much data as possible with the public in 
order to build trust. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 5 

cambridgema.gov  

Minutes 

Public Safety Committee 

July 7, 2020 

Vice Mayor Mallon encouraged the Commissioner to include more transparency in the process so that 
members of the public could understand how officers are being held accountable. 
 
Commissioner Bard stated that the Police Department publishes an annual report as to the use of forces 
that were generated in the department. He explained that the most recent report is not complete because 
the position that completes the report has not yet been filled . 
 
Superintendent Elow said that the department has to make it as easy as possible to file a complaint against 
the police whether it involves an arrest, a use of force, or an interaction on the street. She said that the 
Police Review and Advisory Board link is right on the Police Department’s website. She says they take 
complaints anonymously, and they encourage people to report bad interactions with Cambridge police 
officers.  
 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler stated that there is an issue that a person who files a complaint does not get 
informed of the outcome.  
 
Councillor Zondervan questioned the need to have police respond to quality of life issues in the 
community.  
 
Councillor Zondervan moved to 
adjourn 
 
Councillor Carlone 
Vice Mayor Mallon 
Councillor McGovern 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler 
Councillor Zondervan 
 

Present 
 
 
 
 
 

Absent 
 
 
 
 
 

Nay 
 
 
 
 
 

Yea 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 

 

 

 

 

1.  A communication was received from Councillor Zondervan, transmitting a memorandum regarding 

Policy and Procedures No. 400.1, Use of Force. 

2.  A  communication  was  received  from  Councillor  Zondervan,  regarding  Funding  our  Community, 

Transforming our Policing. 

City of Cambridge 

Page 6 

cambridgema.gov  

