 

 

In City Council September 14, 2020 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HOUSING  
COMMITTEE MEMBERS 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons, Co-Chair 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler, Co-Chair 
Vice Mayor Alanna M. Mallon 
Councillor Marc McGovern 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan 
 
The Housing Committee held a public hearing on Tuesday, July 21, 2020 at 2:00 p.m. in the Sullivan 
Chamber to discuss the City Manager’s candidate for the open Cambridge Housing Authority Board 
position, and to receive a report from the Housing Liaison to the City Manager’s Office on her proposed 
priorities for the remainder of the 2020-2021 City Council term. 
 
Present at the hearing were Councillor Carlone, Naomie Stephen, and Paula M. Crane, Deputy City Clerk. 
 
Participating in the hearing via Zoom were Councillor Simmons, Co-Chair, Councillor Sobrinho-
Wheeler, Co-Chair, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Zondervan, Mayor Siddiqui, Lisa Peterson, Deputy 
City Manager, Iram Farooq, Assistant City Manager for Community Development, Chris Cotter, Housing 
Director, Community Development Department (CDD), Maura Pensak, Housing Liaison to the City 
Manager, Michael Johnston, Executive Director, Cambridge Housing Authority (CHA), Peter Daly, 
Executive Director, Terry Dumas, Director of Planning and Development, Homeowner’s Rehab, Inc. 
(HRI), Louis Bacci, III, Elaine DeRosa, Emanuel Antunes, James Williamson, Sue Reinert, Susan 
Connelly, Valerie Bonds, and Victoria Bergland.  
 
Mayor Simmons asked that a Roll Call take place for attendance of committee members. 
 
The roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
PRESENT: 

Councillor McGovern, Councillor Simmons, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Councillor 
Zondervan 

-4 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-1 

Vice Mayor Mallon 

 
ABSENT: 
 
A quorum was present. 
 
Councillor Simmons convened the hearing and read from prepared Opening Remarks (ATTACHMENT 
A). She gave a summary of the agenda for the hearing (ATTACHMENT B). 
 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler stated that housing is a key issue throughout the pandemic, and he looks 
forward to upcoming discussions in this regard. 
 
Councillor Simmons opened the hearing to public comment.  
 

Valerie Bonds, 808-812 Memorial Drive, asked how a person applies for a position on the Cambridge 
Housing Authority Board. She noted her concern about the renovations at 808-812 Memorial Drive.  
 
James Williamson stated that in Cambridge, the public does not have the opportunity for public comment 
at CHA meetings. He said that it could be done in a way that is reasonably well-managed. He asked the 
proposed new appointment about his view on this topic. He said that another big issue is that some of the 
managers of CHA properties are good, but there are many complaints about other managers. He said that 
in Boston, the tenants are allowed to select the management companies that manage the properties. He 
said that it works well, and it would be one way of addressing the issues that some people have with 
managers in Cambridge.  
 
Councillor Simmons invited Mr. Johnston to give his remarks.  
 
Mike Johnston stated that Gerald Clark has been with the CHA as a Commissioner since 1974. Mr. Clark 
joined the CHA board in the dark days of the CHA. He said that between Mr. Clark and other new 
Commissioners, they were able to turn the CHA around under Dan Wuenschel’s leadership. He stated that 
Mr. Clark has been a Hearing Officer at the CHA for a number of years and is a retired law school 
professor. Although Ms. Clark is not present at today’s hearing, Mr. Johnston stated that he is prepared to 
answer any questions regarding this re-appointment.  
 
Councillor Simmons invited questions or comments regarding Mr. Clark’s re-appointment. There were no 
questions or comments.  
 
Councillor McGovern made a motion to forward the re-appointment of Mr. Clark to the CHA Board to 
the full City Council with a favorable recommendation.  
 
The roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
YEAS:  Councillor McGovern, Councillor Simmons, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Councillor 

Zondervan  

 

 

 

 

 

-4 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-1 

-0 

 
NAYS:  
 
ABSENT: Councillor Mallon 
 
and the motion passed. 
 
Mr. Johnston stated that as background, the CHA Board is made up of 5 individuals, consisting of one 
person appointed by the Governor and four individuals appointed by the City Manager and confirmed by 
the City Council. He stated that of these four appointments, Massachusetts General Laws requires one of 
the four positions must be recommended by organized labor and one must be a Tenant Representative. He 
stated that Mr. Bacci would fill the seat that was vacated by the departure of Tony Pini. Mr. Johnston said 
that Mr. Bacci is a lifelong resident of Cambridge and a member of the Local 151 Laborers Union. He 
noted that this is a five-year seat that would be held through 2024.  
 
Mr. Bacci, 18 Eighth Street, stated that he is a lifelong resident of Cambridge. He stated that his goal is to 
represent the City in the best way possible. He noted that he would like to see more low-income housing. 
He said that he looks forward to doing his part to give back to the community.  
 
Councillor Zondervan stated that he has heard from tenants in public housing about their concerns 
regarding mistreatment by certain property managers. He asked Mr. Bacci to what extent he is planning to 

represent tenants as well as the labor union and what he will do in this situation. Mr. Bacci responded that 
he would like to represent all stakeholders equally. He stated that both sides of a story need to be heard.  
 
Councillor Simmons said that the position on the CHA Board is extraordinary and important because we 
are allowing, through these appointments, for advocacy and policy development for the CHA. She said 
that this is a commitment that will take up a lot of time. She asked Mr. Bacci if he is able to meet the time 
commitment that is necessary for this position. Mr. Bacci responded that he will allocate as much time as 
needed for this work.  
 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler asked Mr. Bacci what direction he would like to see the CHA take in terms 
of improvements, etc. Mr. Bacci said that he wants to focus on improving the existing housing and he 
would like to see improvement in services by the CHA. 
 
Councillor McGovern made a motion to forward the appointment of Louis Bacci, III to the CHA Board to 
the full City Council with a favorable recommendation.  
 
The roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
YEAS:  Councillor McGovern, Councillor Simmons, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler 
 

-3 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-0 

 
NAYS:  
 
ABSENT: Councillor Mallon 
 
PRESENT: Councillor Zondervan 
 
and the motion passed. 
 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler made a motion to close Public Comment. 
 
The roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
YEAS:  Councillor McGovern, Councillor Simmons, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Councillor 

-1 

-1 

 

 

 

Zondervan  

 

 

 

 

 

-4 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-1 

-0 

 
NAYS:  
 
ABSENT: Councillor Mallon 
 
and the motion passed. 
 
Councillor Simmons invited Maura Pensak to give an update on proposed priorities for the remainder of 
the 2020-2021 City Council term.  
 
Ms. Pensak stated that the Liaison position was created to add capacity and to support and augment the 
existing efforts to implement and coordinate various strategies and recommendations that have been 
identified through the myriad initiatives, committees, and task forces in recent years. She said that in 
order to actualize and operationalize the position, a three-pronged strategy was recommended and started 
in the first 6-7 months (pre-Covid). In summary, it is to adopt a Comprehensive City Housing Platform 
that would include a multifaceted public education campaign that promoted and clarified the housing 

opportunities and housing related services throughout the varied departments and establish the Cambridge 
model of a decentralized, yet robust, and active office of housing stability. The second strategy is to 
address both access and tenant displacement concerns by filling direct service gaps such as the need for 
more housing search and case management capacity, and by creating and expanding tools and trainings 
for not only tenants but owners, management companies, realtors, and others who impact a tenant’s 
ability to find and maintain housing. The final strategy is to effect system change through policies, 
procedures, and best practices to include implementation of a tenant notification act, supporting pending 
statewide legislation such as support of the right to counsel for tenants and developing an alternative 
credit screening tool, coordinating efforts around key concerns such as hoarding and/or distressed 
buildings or consideration of a landlord incentive program.  
 
Ms. Pensak noted that most of these goals continue to be important, but the Covid-19 pandemic has 
brought the housing crisis to an unprecedented and critical level of concern. Fortunately, at the start of the 
pandemic, the City Manager’s Office, the Mayor, City Council, and City Departments and/or affordable 
housing partners moved swiftly to establish tenant protections and enhance and expand City resources and 
services to assist tenants in need. An Emergency Temporary Eviction Moratorium Order was issued, the 
Mayor’s Disaster Relief Fund was established, and a housing hotline and web page were created. In 
addition, the CHA and others led the region in implementing flexible and supportive policies and 
practices. She explained that these efforts were essential to ensuring that our residents maintained their 
housing during the initial months of the pandemic. However, with unemployment at unparalleled heights, 
the financial impact of the pandemic continues to threaten the stability of our tenants and homeowners. 
She noted that without continued interventions, Cambridge will experience increased tenant displacement 
and a further decline of our socio-economic diversity. 
 
Ms. Pensak stated that FY21 housing priorities must respond both to the increased need for tenant 
protections and housing assistance resources and services as well as exploring opportunities that may 
have resulted from the crisis. She explained that these priorities would include the development and 
implementation of a Comprehensive Covid-19 Housing Safety Net, Improvement of Access to Housing 
Opportunities, and the Continuation of Project Development, Implementation and/or Coordination 
Activities to Address Access and Tenant Displacement Concerns.  
 
In summary, Ms. Pensak asserted that the City must continue the strategies of enhanced direct service and 
interdepartmental collaboration, explore access barriers, challenges and opportunities and enhance and 
promote a safety net with strong policies and best practice recommendations that will address this crisis 
need and ensure long term policy change. 
 
Councillor Sobrino-Wheeler thanked Ms. Pensak for her update. He asked Ms. Pensak about 
discrimination that voucher holders receive, as there is a report from Suffolk University looking at 
discrimination that renters face as voucher holders as well as Black residents. He asked Ms. Pensak to talk 
about what aspect of this she has seen and what efforts the City has looked into in this regard. Maura 
Pensak responded that there is a lot of work to do. She talked about the need for more collaboration with 
the Human Rights Commission in their fair housing work. She said that there was some conversation pre-
Covid. From her office, she stated that she has been talking to tenants and management companies. She 
said that it is very tricky to put your hands around. She said that some tenants do not want to pursue 
action. She said that they are seeing a lot of prospective tenants being asked if they are professional, or a 
student with no room for family, or just a resident. She said that some of this is financially driven. She 
said that if a person rents to a student, there will be more turnover than if you rent to a resident or family 
that wants to be a permanent resident of Cambridge. She explained that we do need more testing. She said 
that she hopes to have a public education campaign, which would include education, regulation, and the 
creation of tools such as credit screening.  
 

Councillor Zondervan thanked Ms. Pensak for the great work that she is doing. He said that it feels so 
overwhelming with so many obstacles. He worries that we won’t get there this way. He asked what some 
of the big things are that can be worked on at the policy level to help break down some of these 
challenges and assist with the work. He asked if the City Council should be working on a condo 
conversion bylaw. Ms. Pensak responded that when we are able to pull together more specifics around 
management company practices, it is something that could turn into a policy. She said that supporting 
continued funding is something that the City Council can do. She said that a balance must be found 
between policy and best practice. Councillor Zondervan said that he would like to be kept informed in 
how the City Council can best assist this work. He noted that he is encouraged by the work on 
discrimination and racism or policy moves that can be made to help Ms. Pensak in her work. He said that 
these are persistent and longstanding problems in the housing market. He asked if there are any updates 
on staffing in Ms. Pensak’s office. He noted that the City Council approved a reallocation during the 
budget process. Ms. Pensak said that she has not spoken with the City Manager regarding next steps in 
this process.  
 
Councillor McGovern thanked Ms. Pensak for her work. He stated that he would like to talk about short-
term and long-term goals from a policy perspective. As it relates to short-term solutions, he asked if some 
sort of “Know Your Rights” pamphlet could be given to a renter in the event that they have any issues. He 
noted that he is amazed at how many residents have month-to-month leases. He asked if this is something 
that the City Council should work on. He asked if there is lower hanging fruit work that can be done 
quickly while unpacking the bigger issues. Ms. Pensak responded that a “Know Your Rights” brochure 
when a person becomes a renter is definitely doable. She said that it is interesting that Councillor 
McGovern raised the issue about month-to-month leases. She said that because of Covid and working on 
the Mayor’s Disaster Relief Fund, there are people that presented that thought. She said that people had a 
lease, but it ran out and it turned into a month-to-month lease. She said this could potentially require a 
policy along with educating people that they should request a lease to be renewed from an owner every 
year.  
 
Ms. Pensak said that the other issue that came along with Covid was that a lot of people were asked to 
renew their lease 90-120 days before the end of the first lease. It became problematic when people lost 
their jobs and were not sure that they could commit to such a lease. She said that if they did not renew, 
there would be a fee. She said that they worked one-on-one with a number of places to forego the fee, but 
a policy change amending the length of time that a signed lease could not be requested more than 60 days 
in advance would be beneficial. Councillor McGovern said that it may be helpful to break down issues 
such as housing, quality of housing, and discrimination into different sections. He said that rather than a 
long list, a break down in sections would be easier to work with. Councillor McGovern asked about 
incentives for landlords. He talked about a group in Charlotte that implemented a program with veterans 
wherein they provide insurance for the landlord in the event that the veteran skips out on the rent or 
damages the property. He explained that the other thing that they do is gap vouchers. He said that where 
the Section 8 caps out and where the floor of market rate begins, there is a gap. Even with a Section 8 
voucher, it is difficult to find something on the market. He asked if this is something that could be helpful 
for Cambridge to look at. Ms. Pensak stated that this is interesting. She said that one thing that is different 
in Cambridge is that the CHA has put in the smaller fair market rates so that has increased what they will 
pay and that has made quite a difference. She said that there is a fine line of continuing to support the 
really high rent. She said that the rates that the CHA is paying now are pretty good. She said that she is 
open to more discussion about Councillor McGovern’s ideas.  
 
Mayor Siddiqui stated that something that comes up regularly has been inclusionary preferences. She 
asked about the status. Ms. Farooq said that CDD has been working studiously on updating the 
preferences. She noted that after previously meeting with the Housing Committee, her department went 
back to the Affordable Housing Trust to talk through the issues that came up at the Housing Committee in 

the last term. She said that it fell to the back burner during Covid as the housing team has doubled down 
in making sure that inclusionary program doesn’t flag and also working on the various grant programs. 
She noted that they will be ready to come back to the Housing Committee with a revised version of the 
preference recommendations in September.  
 
Mayor Siddiqui asked if there is any update with respect to city owned property and housing. Ms. Farooq 
said that each of the various city parcels has different characteristics that is amendable to different kinds 
of uses. She noted that Cherry Street is one property that the staff feels strongly that housing would be a 
good use on that site. She explained that a public process was initiated that ended in an impasse. She said 
that the neighborhood is different, and the goals are different, and the hope is that in September they are 
hoping to host a first meeting to bring everyone back to Cheery Street issue. She said that instead of 
starting with an open-ended question, they will start with the goal of having housing on this site and then 
have a discussion with the neighborhood which will help to define the discussion. 
 
Mayor Siddiqui asked about property at the intersection of Main Street and Massachusetts Avenue. Ms. 
Farooq responded that it is slated for housing because it is a part of a transfer agreement, but the issue is 
that it is more complex because although it is dedicated housing, it is a much more complicated and very 
tight sight, so CDD needs to go through a community process and more discussion with the Affordable 
Housing Trust. Chris Cotter added that it is a challenging site, so they expect that there will be complexity 
when it comes to redeveloping it. He commented that the building is a 6-unit building that has been 
vacant and will likely involve demolition. He said that CDD expects to go through the Affordable 
Housing Trust as they have done in the past to select the developer, but they want to first think about the 
size, scale, approach, funding, and how the housing will be used, for example, would it be best family 
housing, individuals, lower income household individuals, etc. He said that conversations need to take 
place. 
 
Mayor Siddiqui said that Cambridge and Somerville Legal Services would be another group to talk to 
because they are strong partners. They could advise as to trends that they are seeing. She said that the City 
Council has received some reports from the Human Rights Commission around discrimination. She said 
that there is an Intake Form asking questions regarding discrimination, but most people don’t know about 
it. She said that a campaign around reporting discrimination to the City via some type of mechanism 
would be beneficial to track these incidents.  
 
Councillor Carlone stated that he is curious. He said that the work of the Affordable Housing Trust is 
something that the City Council supports. He said that in the proposed ordinance there will be a report 
back. He asked if there is there any evaluation of building projects done by the AHT or CDD to learn 
what worked, what didn’t work, and what can be done better. He asked if there is public access to that 
information. Mr. Cotter responded that there is not a formal review, but they work closely with the 
housing providers and have informal discussions where they learn from each other as projects go forward. 
He said that CDD is learning from Homeowner’s Rehab as they are completing the Finch development 
and there are discussions among the housing agencies to share notes and learn. Mr. Cotter said that 
evaluation is happening continually and is informal. Councillor Carlone said that there is mysticism about 
the Affordable Housing Trust, and it does not seem publicly open which creates a concern by neighbors 
that can be avoided. He said that the information could be as simple as a document summarizes what was 
discussed and key points.  
 
Ms. Farooq clarified that when Mr. Cotter said that conversations were not public, he was referring to 
conversations with non-profit Affordable Housing builders. She noted that all of the Affordable Housing 
Trust meetings are open to the public and the meeting minutes are posted on the website. She said that she 
would be happy to send the link to Councillor Carlone. Councillor Carlone said that he knows much 
business occurs in the committee meetings, but he was referring to conversations with non-profit builders. 

He asked Mr. Cotter about design discussions being public or not and that is what he was focusing on. He 
said that many decisions get made behind the scenes, but many decisions get made and if it is not clear 
why the decisions were made, it hurts the process. He recommended that whatever those discussions were, 
he would like to see a summary of those conversations. Mr. Cotter said that meetings that he is talking 
about are those with affordable housing builders, they are not meetings in which things are decided. It is 
more about sharing notes.  
 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler stated that it is hard to get good data on displacement and evictions, 
especially during the pandemic. He said that it is great to see the Housing Stabilization Fund that has been 
set up. He said that the eviction moratorium has been extended statewide through mid-October. He said 
that he is concerned about seeing a potential flood of evictions after that, and how is the city tracking that. 
He questions if there is data from the Housing Stabilization Fund that can be aggregated. Ms. Farooq 
responded that Ms. Pensak has led the charge and is better positioned to speak on this issue. Ms. Pensak 
said that there is data from the Mayors Disaster Relief Fund that they are working on to figure out 
patterns and where requests have come from. She said that the Tenant Rights and Notification Act is 
important because it will require information to be given and hopefully, we will get more calls at the early 
stages. She said that it is important to have a sense where we will be at. The goal is to help people keep 
their head above water and they will not have huge arrears when this ends. 
 
As it relates to accessory dwelling units, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler asked how many units have been 
created. Ms. Farooq said that she does not have the specific numbers handy at the moment. She said that 
the Inspectional Services Department keeps those records, but she will happy to provide the members 
with that information. She said that since the Accessory Dwelling Unit ordinance focused on where there 
is existing space that is unused, it was limited by the existing amount of built square footage by the date 
in the ordinance. Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler noted that he looks forward to next steps. 
 
Councillor Simmons thanked Ms. Pensak for her hard work. She thanked Ms. Farooq and Mr. Cotter. She 
said that the next step is to synthesize. She said that she is interested in hearing where we are in terms of 
preferences. She said we should make it easier for people to get into the inclusionary program. She said 
that she is pleased with movement around the Cherry Street lot. She said that the Housing Committee 
members need to focus their attention and determine what the Committee sees as important that we may 
be able to get completed in this term. She said that she is interested in a comprehensive housing platform 
or plan. She asked the members to find one important topic that the committee will focus on and will be 
completed by the end of the current term.  
 
Councillor Zondervan said that he appreciates the charge to the committee to think about priorities. He 
said that the work that was done last term in the task force brought forward the opportunity around condo 
conversions. He said that this has been an ongoing problem in the city. He said that he is wondering if this 
could be prioritized now. Councillor Simmons said that she wants to collaborate with Councillor 
Sobrinho-Wheeler to put together a work plan in a focused way.  
 
Councillor McGovern stated that Councillor Simmons is on target. He would like to see the committee 
develop a roadmap with priorities.  
 
Mayor Siddiqui said that Ms. Pensak has outlined the work in her office while CDD has their work plan. 
She said that there are different people working on different things. Councillor Simmons said that the 
work can happen in tandem.  
 
Councillor Carlone said that he agrees with Councillor McGovern. He said that it is the beginnings of a 
residential plan for the city. He said that there is no doubt that CDD has many of these thoughts in mind. 

He noted that even an outline would help everyone. He said that each expertise area has something to give 
and it is something that can begin to develop into a housing plan for the city.  
 
Councillor Simmons and Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler thanked all those present for their attendance. 
 
The hearing adjourned at 3:47 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

________________________________ 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons, Co-Chair 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler, Co-Chair 
Housing Committee 

For the Committee, 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

