CITY COUNCIL 
 

ROUNDTABLE/WORKING MEETING 

~ MINUTES ~ 

  Tuesday, February 11, 2020 

5:30 PM 

Dr. Henrietta S. Attles Meeting Room 

Present 

Absent 

Late 

Arrived 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Late 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Present 

Absent 

Arrived 

  Call to Order 

Attendee Name 
Dennis J. Carlone 

Patricia Nolan 

Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler 

Alanna Mallon 

Marc C. McGovern 

Sumbul Siddiqui 

E. Denise Simmons 

Timothy J. Toomey 

Quinton Zondervan 

Attendee Name 
Manikka L. Bowman 

Alfred B. Fantini 

Jose Luis Rojas Villarreal 

David Weinstein 

Rachel Weinstein 

Ayesha Wilson 

 
School Committee 

  Call of the Meeting 

 
 

 

The  City  Council  and  School  Committee  will  hold  a  Roundtable/Working  meeting  to  begin  discussions  on  a 
preliminary School Department budget for Fiscal Year 2021. 

 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  0:11   
Good evening, everyone. Thank you for being patient. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  0:25   
I will read the Call of tonight's Roundtable meeting and then we'll get started.  By order of Mayor Sumbul 
Siddiqui acting in accordance with Chapter 1 Section 2.3 of the Rules of School Committee, there will be 
a Roundtable meeting between the City Council and the School Committee on Tuesday, February 11, 
2020, at 5:30 p.m. in the Dr. Henrietta S. Attles Meeting Room, Cambridge Rindge and Latin, 459 
Broadway, Cambridge, for the purpose of beginning preliminary discussions on the FY21 School 
Department budget.  It is anticipated this meeting will end no later than 7:30 p.m. This meeting is being 
recorded by audio and visual devices, and per the Rules of the School Committee,  no votes will be taken 
and there will be no public comment. I want to acknowledge both bodies present: Councillor McGovern, 
Councillor Carlone, Councillor Zondervan, Councillor Nolan, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Sobrinho-

City of Cambridge 

Page 1 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

Wheeler, Councillor Toomey and Councillor Simmons; School Committee Member Rojas, Member 
Fantini, Member Wilson, Member Rachel, Member Weinstein, and Vice-Chair Bowman, Student 
Members Sophia Green and Hersh Kanner.   I will give a brief overview of our agenda.  We will be 
hearing from our City Manager who will discuss some of the City supports for our schools. We will then 
hear from the Vice-Chair who will discuss the budget further and aligning this budget specifically with 
the district plan that's been in place and is in year three. We will then have an overview of the budget 
process thus far. And the district plan and the equity work that is being done and Superintendent Selene 
will present that. After that, we will also hear from the building equity bridges team who will be here 
shortly. Finally, we'll have a discussion on key takeaways from community and principal meetings from 
Superman superintendent, saline, and then we'll have a discussion. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  2:48   
As I've communicated to School Committee members and the City Council, I've shared some 
communication of some of the meeting. that we've had thus far. So some of the material, hopefully is not 
new. And some will be new to reflect on. And so I hope that we can have a robust conversation about the 
budget. So without further ado, I will toss it to the City Manager to give a overview of our city supports 
that exist for our Cambridge Public Schools. 
 
Louis DePasquale, City Manager  3:27   
Thank you, Madam Mayor. First of all, it's is really a great opportunity for me to be here today. We were 
just at the Valente Library all afternoon, talking about the financial position of the city and the raging 
agency presentation and we got to do it at the Valente Library and gave the rating agency an opportunity 
to take a tour of both the school and the library and it's a pretty impressive building. One of the things that 
we really stressed today was the fact that the relationship that we have as a city with the school in the city 
is not the relationship that other cities have. I wish it was, but it isn't. I mean, I've been Budget Director 
for over 20 years, I was Assistant City Manager for 14. And now this is my fourth year as City Manager 
and I can tell you in those 38 years, one of the best things this city does is the relationship the City 
Manager had with the Superintendent in terms of getting things done, the relationship the Mayor had with 
the School Committee and the City Council, and the relationship of the teams of the Mayor, 
Superintendent and the City Manager had to make sure that we will always moving forward with the best 
possible budget for the children of Cambridge.  I think we're going to go over a few things here today, but 
it's clear to me that I'm very proud, after watching Bob Haley and Rich Rossi, really demonstrate the 
importance working with the Superintendent and listening to the City Council who has clearly made it 
clear that the education budget is a priority. This is where we need to invest that money. I think we have 
done that, we will continue to do that in terms of operating budget abd in terms of capital budget in terms 
of school. I'm just going to go over a few items today to demonstrate the team effort because it really is a 
team. Cambridge is so successful not because of any individual or any group, it's because all of us can 
come together and really figure out how to do what's best for all the residents of Cambridge. I think 
financial position certainly plays a major role in that. I do think it's something we do incredibly well. I 
will say when you are meeting with rating agencies, and we'd make our presentation on what we're doing, 
especially around school buildings, they are amazed but they're even more amazed that we can do it and 
still keep tax bils down, still keep the strong position we're in and still keep a debt stabilization surplus. 
All these things have a relationship on it on how we go day to day.   
 
Louis DePasquale, City Manager  6:01   
I'll start off with the Capital Projects.  The King Open School, as I said, which we did in the Valente 
Library was a $160 million project and in the current bond schedule that we have here right now, which 
goes from 20 to 24, the last payment of that is in this schedule. We have already paid off the MLK in 
terms of started the bond process. If you take those two schools, the city has bonded 255 million dollars 
that we have put out in bonds. Now, over and above that, as we take a look at the Tobin, we're potentially 
going to have another $250 million dollars. One of the things that we really want to take a look at is 

City of Cambridge 

Page 2 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

where did we stand even before we start the Tobin, have we done this at the expense of the future of the 
city. I think one of the things that the City Council can be incredibly proud of here is when we started the 
process with these two schools, one of the things we said is we needed to have a Debt Stabilization Fund 
that helped protect the taxpayers so when you're taking on this kind of increase, you can help absorb some 
of the increases. At the end of this fiscal year, will have $57 million set aside for future debt. If you look 
at our budget right now, about 55% of that is projected to be school debt. We can continue to keep on 
moving with the completion of the Tobin which is in our five year projections. The sixth year is obviously 
not here yet, but that will be the final year. In the meantime, we're also put in a position to discuss moving 
further down the line - What are the next steps and where are we going and that's, again, not an accident. 
That's a plan by really taking a look at how do you fund that Stabilization Fund and the City Council 
every year has allowed me for the last three years, take whatever we took from the Stabilization Fund and 
replace it with Free Cash. That is not an easy thing to do, but we've done it. I also want to say that I was 
part when this process began of talking about what could the city handle three schools probably without 
any additional assistance and Bob Healy, who knew numbers incredibly well, projected that we felt it was 
going to be about a $250 million dollar project to address three schools.  The biggest concern then was if 
the city would have commit $250 million dollars, what was that going to mean for the rest of the schools? 
Would they be completely out of getting any renovations? Also, just as important, what was it going to 
mean for the city? Could we address our concerns.  As we come to today, not only have we already spent 
in terms of bond the $250 million dollars, we are not taking on another $250 million dollars, and we've 
not missed a beat. That is an incredible accomplishment and omething everyone in this room should be 
incredibly proud of. I say that also saying that, as this has gone on the city is addressed many of its needs 
in terms of infrastructure - fire station, so we've been able to balance not at the expense of the city. We've 
also been able to address some additional school needs. In FYI 18, we addressed an additional almost $3 
million over and above what was in the bond schedule for the school. In FYI, 19, almost $7 million in 
additional capital needs to the school. In FYI, 20, we've got about $900,000 already out there for 
additional needs for the school. We recently went to the City Council to address the Cambridgeport 
School in terms of additional needs. If that comes up next year, we'll be able to address that. We have 
really said, How do you make this all work? How do you balance it all out? I think we've done that will 
continue to do that. One of the things that I talked to David about was in our five-year plan, we had 
$800,000 set aside for an additional school in terms of addressing some of its needs and in working 
closely with Jimmy and Claire and the Superintendent, we've changed that in the future to $1.8 million 
with just basic needs that we felt we have to address. So we're very proud of that. But again, that doesn't 
mean when things come up, we won't address them. And that's what you have free cash for. When the 
Graham and Parks roof came up, we got the proposal and said d let's strike. So we're also going to be 
open to take a look at other things. So, again, I think we've positioned ourselves very well and will be a 
discussion really that's going to come down when can we start the next really major project where we've 
just started the Tobin and what's that going to be.  Is it a fourth school? Or is it really taking a look at the 
other schools and saying what's the appropriate number, do we need a study to take a look at that? We are 
certainly in a financial position to take on whatever the Council and the School Committee feels is a 
priority. I think that's the good news tonight.  Even with all we've done, we've positioned ourselves very 
well for the future. That's something we all can be proud of. But it's not just been the capital side. It's how 
we address the operating budget. I have been City Manager, where I have submitted three school budgets 
since I have been City Manager to the City Council and I am proud that in those three budgets, I've 
recommended an operating school increase working with the Superintendent in the Mayor very closely of 
5.3%. That exceeds the five year average of 5.2. The seven year average of 4.8 and the 10 year average of 
4.2. Clearly we have made the education budget a priority under this administration as it's been in the 
past, but we've really put the additional funds in working closely with the Superintendent and City 
Council because, again, we have bottom line authority, but the Council still has to approve all of this. I've 
also been proud of the fact that when I started as City Manager, coming from a finance background, if 
you had said to me that it my three budgets, I would have added almost 250 positions on the school and 
city side, I would have laughed. But the reality is we need to address our needs. We've added almost 90 

City of Cambridge 

Page 3 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

positions in that three year period on the city side. To address school needs, school growth, school new 
programming in the last three budgets that I've been involved in, we've added 147 new positions, 
something we all should be very, very proud of. In continuing that when we met with the Superintendent 
and Claire and Jimmy and I want to say another thing, which is very unusual that I said to the rating 
agencies today, we don't meet at the time at a budget and say thank you and goodbye. This truly is a 12-
month relationship. That's why it's successful. There are no surprises. We're in this together and we work 
together, and I can't thank my team enough and the Superintendent's team to really feel comfortable and 
confident that we are in this together, there's no surprises, there's no secrets. Together, we can get things 
done. think we've shown that. In the early process, I'm very proud to say that we have recommended a 
6.5% property tax allocation for 21 and an additional 1.4 potential Chapter 70 money. The way we 
handled Chapter 70 financing is a question, but we have always treated Chapter 70 as a regular revenue, 
and then adjusted at the year end, but due to the fact that we knew it was highlighted of an increase, we 
put that in the budget. That results in a 5.9% School budget, one of the largest budget increases we've had 
that I can go back and find. It's something I'm very proud of. The three year average is 5.3 so it far 
exceeds that. It's a budget based on all of the discussions that I had with the Superintendent that we feel 
addressed the concerns that the Superintendent had. We are here again as the bottom line authority. I can 
tell you knowing how my nine bosses feel, which is the Cambridge City Council, our commitment to 
education in this city is second to none. The school budget is the largest tax budget in the city by far. So 
it's also my responsibility to somewhat balance that out with how much we can really give without having 
the taxes go crazy but it is the largest budget.  The support we've given has been exceptional. It will 
continue to be exceptional. It's something I'm very proud of. I'm even more proud of the fact that I think 
the relationship we've had and that I've had with three Mayors that I've worked with in even for a short 
period of time, understanding the importance that the Mayor and the Manager have to work with the 
Superintendent to come up with the best possible budget for the school: the students, the School 
Committee and the City Council and I really believe in my long career with the city we have really made 
that a priority and I really want to thank Mayor Simmons Mayor McGovern, Mayor Siddiqui for all their 
support on the budgets. I've worked with them and Kenny Salim and we started roughly together and I 
think it's been an incredible team. I want to thank my team in his team for the ongoing relationship. I 
know we have more work to do, but I can tell all of you that this team gets it,  this team works together 
and this team does produce the best possible scenario for the students and the residents of the City of 
Cambridge. Thank you. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  15:38   
Thank you, Mr. City Manager. We will now move on to hearing from Vice Chair Bowman. You have the 
floor. 
 
Vice Chair Bowman  15:48   
Thank you Mayor Siddiqui and thank you to my colleagues and our partners at the city. We recognize that 
we don't take for granted that our budget on the city side is a significant part of the city budget. One thing 
that myself and my co-chair of the Budget Committee Member Fantini has been really committed to is 
really recognizing that money in and of itself does not solve a problem. Now let me be very clear, it's a 
great problem to have. Having money is a good problem. But that said, we recognize from a systematic 
perspective, when we look at the academic outcomes when it comes to our kids, that having lots of 
resources, to be honest and frank is not necessarily moving the needle when it comes to academic 
achievement for all of our kids. We are incredibly grateful for the resources that's been provided to us, 
particularly when it comes to our buildings. It's amazing that our young people are in net zero buildings, 
and have the privilege to be in beautiful spaces and learn. We also recognize as a body that we have a 
responsibility based on the allotted amount of resources that come to us that we have to be laser-focused 
as it relates to what are the levers that we need to invest in as a committee and as an administration to be 
able to make sure that we can take those resources and look at the community and have conversations and 
say, we are doing and making the investments necessary for every single child in our school system, 

City of Cambridge 

Page 4 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

regardless of their race, regardless of their socio economic status, to be able to access all the resources 
that are here in our city. We don't even have to go outside of the city based on resources. That is really 
our charge. As a result, when it came to this year's budget, we decided to really take a step back and do a 
different approach. Of course, it's still centered on what our district wide plan is, but a lot of times when 
we would approach the budget process in the past, it would be asking the community what it wants, not 
really necessarily a dialogue between the body, the administration, the School Committee, around what 
are the structures in place that shape our budget. We wanted the average citizen to know that we have a 
tiered system when it comes to how we create the formula of how our schools are staffed. Is that the right 
approach? If people don't have the basic fundamental knowledge as it relates to how our budget is 
structured, then how can we create the systematic change to tackle some of the issues that we lay out in 
our district wide plan, which is equity and access, engaging learning experiences for our educators as well 
as our students, really thinking about the whole child, family and community partnerships and really 
being able to look at continuous progress to ensure that we are meeting the needs, the academic as well as 
social needs, social emotional needs of our children. We were very intentional about centering the process 
of the budget, along with the district wide plan, but also including the outcomes. In your presentation, you 
have some of our outcomes here. In our community meetings, we actually share what those numbers are, 
and we will definitely forward those to you so you can have a sense of where we are as it relates to our 
third grade literacy rates across the multiple demographics in our schools, eighth grade math, and I'll let 
you continue to read on from there.  We think is really important to bring in the outcomes aspect of our 
district wide plan in this conversation because the reality is there's a cohort of kids in our school system 
that are doing very well with our investments and there's a cohort of kids that are not. We have to be 
leaders as a body, as an administration, the Superintendent, the Mayor, all of us, in not hiding those 
numbers, but letting them be very public so that can shape our sense of urgency as it relates to tackling 
these issues in a way that will allow for our kids to be able to really grow and thrive and really be able to 
leverage all the resources that are available to us. I will stop there. The admin team will go into more 
depth as it relates to where we are with the budgetary process now. Thank you. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  20:43   
Superintendent Salim. 
 
Superintendent Salim  20:44   
Thank you, Mayor Siddiqui and thank you Vice Chair Bowman.  It is great to be here this evening. In the 
first part, I'll be sharing some some information slides and a couple of different pieces. In a couple 
minutes we will also be able to hear from the Building Equity Bridges team representatives to talk about 
some of that work, which I'll introduce in a moment. But what I want to start off with is an overview of 
our budget process and the equity framework as a prelude to that.  Starting off just at a high level, talking 
about where we are with the FY21 budget in terms of the commitment that the City Manager and the city 
have made to the Cambridge Public Schools. I just want to say how grateful I am and that our team is for 
the ongoing partnership from City Manager DePasquale, Mr. Jennings and Mr. Kale and Miss Semonoff 
as truly being, as the City Manager said, partners not just for this moment around the budget 
development, but over the course of the entire year, recognizing that resources in terms of the budget are 
one piece, but how we work together and how we collaborate and how we leverage the amazing resources 
that exist in our city are truly the opportunities that are unique to Cambridge, and that we believe are the 
opportunities for really achieving the gains that our students and families deserve. The highlights the City 
Manager spoke of, you'll see on the left side in terms of the overall budget allocation and increase of 
5.9%. The overall allocation for FY21 is $213.7 million dollars, an increase of $11.9 million. That 
revenue and that budget will allow us to accomplish three really important things: to meet our fixed costs 
increases so to meet all the needs related to all the existing staff and benefit increases, different contracts 
for related to transportation facilities, maintenance and student services. Generally, the inflation related 
costs that happen year over year.  Then really importantly, is something that Cambridge is privileged to 
do that is oftentimes not the case in most communities across Massachusetts, is to actually address some 

City of Cambridge 

Page 5 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

of the other staffing needs in response to enrollment growth to student need related to our different 
programs across the district for English language learners, students with disabilities and other special 
populations. Finally, this really key piece around continuing to invest in our district plan and the related 
initiatives. When we entered the conversation with the city around our FY21 budget or FY20, or FY 19, 
in the time that I've been here in Cambridge, it's always about what does the school district need in order 
to be able to move this work around the district plan and move these key initiatives forward. So that is 
always the orientation. It's about what is necessary to accomplish these important goals. Through this 
process, this increase of $11.9 million is funded both from property taxes as well as Chapter 70 funding 
from the state. Folks on the City Council and School Committee certainly have seen a lot of the news 
coming out of the Statehouse with the Student Opportunity Act and some of the increases that have 
happened with Chapter 70 funding. I think it's important to note that while there is this $1.4 million 
increase projected right now based on the Governor's budget, that is not too dissimilar to the increases 
we've seen in previous years.  The priority that has that has been made with the Student Opportunity Act 
funding in the particularly first year is on gateway cities. Some of the communities that you'll see have 
some of those more significant increases are our neighbors that are comprised of those gateway cities 
across the Commonwealth. In terms of the timeline, we have been going through a process of budget 
analysis and planning, meeting with different department heads, meeting with our building leaders, as 
well as engaged in community meetings with educators and with the community at large. We're using all 
of that input and data in order to craft the proposed budget that I'll be presenting to the School Committee 
on March 12th. The School Committee will then have an opportunity to engage in discussion and 
deliberation before their adoption of the FY21 budget, which then of course, will go to the City Council 
for a Finance Committee hearing later this spring. I alluded to this a little bit earlier, we use a range of 
different information and data, student data and surveys. We implemented a couple of years ago, a series 
of school climate surveys that we use as part of our analysis.  School Committee roundtables and retreats 
that happen not just during this budget period, but over the course of the whole year in order to inform 
discussions related to the budget, projections of enrollment, expenditures and revenue, community input, 
and the principals and educators. On the right side, you see some of those different ways in which we also 
are using specific tools and the idea around the community budget meetings which were new for this year, 
where we decided to not have the the usual model of having folks come into the Dr. Attles Meeting Room 
to speak for three minutes to go through the formal process, and really more engage in a dialogue as the 
Vice Chair described, which I'll touch upon a little bit later in the presentation. As we think about the 
budget as well, though, we're also thinking about it as just the money piece when we think about our 
resources. We also think about the time that we have in-house staff use time. The equity driven district 
plan and the associated objectives and initiatives are what are driving how we think about resources. 
Welook at that as really helping us to make progress on the outcome measures that the Vice Chair 
mentioned in her remarks, the seven outcomes that we have developed as a way of measuring our 
progress of the district plan. Over the last couple of years, we've also centered the work on equity and 
racial equity and in the previous term, the School Committee adopted these two definitions around equity 
and racial equity, and recognizing that when we're thinking about our resources, we need to be thinking 
with this mindset around students who need more are provided more, and bringing that equity lens and 
racial equity lens in particular, and that achieving racial equity requires a proactive and continuous 
investment in communities of color through this work. As part of this equity and racial equity work, we 
also have the opportunity to partner with the Cambridge Education Association on a project that the 
Nellie Mae Education Foundation launched about 18 months ago which was a grant opportunity to really 
examine the root causes of inequity. We had an opportunity, along with five other communities in New 
England, to engage in this work. The Building Equity Bridges project, which we'll turn to in a moment 
was an effort to really engage families, young people, and educators in different ways. That is culminated 
in a set of nine barriers that you'll hear about in a moment as well as a set of recommended actions related 
to having an anti racism stance along this work. So building on these ideas around equity and racial 
equity, how can we be actively anti racist in our work to really confront the systemic barriers that exist, 
not just in Cambridge but across schooling as an institution and across this country. So with that, I'm 

City of Cambridge 

Page 6 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

going to invite Khari Milner and Tessa Bridge up to the table. Khari is the co-director of the Agenda for 
Children and heads up learning partnerships for the Cambridge Public Schools. Tessa Bridge is the 
manager for the Building Equity Bridges project.  I will turn it over to Khari and Tessa. 
 
Khari Milner  29:53   
Good evening, everyone. Madam Mayor, City Manager, all the elected officials in the house good to see 
everyone.  It is an honor to be here to be able to share a bit about the Building Equity Bridges project and 
now what's become what we hope is a movement. As you heard the Superintendent share, the Building 
Equity Bridges project was launched almost two years ago and was first seeded by Nellie Mae Education 
Foundation which you'll also notice in this first slide is prominently featured our couple logos and, of 
course, we have CPS, we also have the CEA, which is the teacher or educator union. This was really a 
joint effort from the very beginning. When I first heard about this proposal, what really drew me to it was 
the fact that you had the union and the district at the table and we are the one district or community across 
the six that Nellie Mae funded that had the union at the table. For me, it really helped to set the stage so 
that we would not immediately start with finger pointing, which I've seen and we know happens 
sometimes as a distraction. It allowed us from the beginning to say we're both going to hold up a mirror in 
terms of both the district and the union, to see what is happening and what we're doing to contribute to the 
persistent inequities that we see across our district and community, our young people, our families, and 
our educators, and leaders, all of which are impacted. You'll also see above the Cambridge Equity logo, 
which was designed by a CRLS student in one of the course projects that we collaborated with Miss Max. 
You also see some murals and some of these slides and those were created live during some of the 
Building Equity Bridges events. 
 
Khari Milner  32:13   
In terms of what is Building Equity Bridges, the idea was really to bring together multiple stakeholders 
starting with the district and the union and to think differently and set up a comprehensive approach and a 
transparent process to look into the root causes of inequities  and particularly racial inequities that we see 
throughout our district. So if you consider what's on our district dashboard, you consider what are we 
tracking and what are we submitting to the state. What are we making priorities around? We can convert 
those ideas often into quantitative numbers and those numbers tell a story. Often it's a story that doesn't 
bring about a lot of smiles. When we think about the disparities, as Vice Chair Bowman mentioned, those 
students who are prospering versus those students who are really struggling according to some of the 
different metrics, and what we were seeking to do was to look at what was under those numbers. What is 
happening that's contributing to those numbers, what structures, what decisions, what actions, what 
barriers are persistently contributing to something that is really hard to crack, which is the so called gaps 
and these other magnified different pathways that our young people go through throughout our district 
and this is for generations as we know. 
 
Khari Milner  33:58   
In terms of the how, one of the ways that we really went about this work was to center ourselves with 
some core principles. You'll see on this slide that we, from the very beginning, put together a set of 
principles that allowed us to consistently focus on the elevation of the voices of young people, of 
educators and families, really trying to center those who are most impacted and harmed if you will, by the 
systems, by the institution, by the structures, by the decisions that are made, that are played out in the data 
and played out and the actual experiences. We looked through multiple layers and subgroups across our 
community, multiple school buildings, multiple parts of the city to try to find these voices and not just to 
ask them to be a part of this, we had to build the trust in order to do that. But also, to make sure we turn 
up the volume on their voices. I just mentioned the idea of proactively cultivating trust, another one of our 
principles. That was so essential. So many folks, and I look around this room, a lot of people have known 
you, and have known me for quite a long time, and the entire time that we've known each other we've 
been talking about a lot of these issues, especially if you're talking to me, you know, I'm likely to bring it 

City of Cambridge 

Page 7 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

up. So as somebody who went through the schools here, who saw my two younger brothers go through 
the schools, someone who now has three children in the schools, my wife and I, we are consistently 
reminded by the young people that we see across our city, and the very different outcomes that they are 
living, and also the very different barriers that they have to navigate. The reason I bring this all up is 
because with the persistent disparities, we know that a lot of folks are frustrated. A lot of folks are tired of 
being asked, What do you think about the inequity? What do you think about the racism? What do you 
think about testing? What do you think about the number of black teachers that your kid has had? And 
they don't really want to talk about it. They've talked about it enough. And they also don't typically have a 
lot of trust, if you will, for the quote unquote, system. For somebody who sits in a position and works in a 
position that I do work both inside the district and outside across the community, I can really understand.  
I get a lot of different stories that helped me to have empathy and to also have lived some of this myself. 
We had to proactively cultivate trust just to have people speak and be a part of the different elements of 
Building Equity Bridges, or BEB for short. I'll just say briefly that we also really sought to share power 
and the idea that we needed folks to feel like their voices were not just elevated but empowered. And that 
we needed them to engage as partners. And this also include actual partners, such as community 
programs, city programs, many different folks who have different connections to the district. And not just 
to say the district needs to know this because the district has the power to change all this. That is not what 
our experience has been. And we want to make sure that was not what we were messaging. In terms of the 
idea of seeking out and centering the voices of those who have been most marginalized. Again, that's been 
a very consistent goal of ours. In terms of the who, you kind of see these hexagons down the bottom here 
hard to read, but they really represent a lot of the different voices and subgroups that we went out against 
centering those who are most marginalized within each of these groups. So, I've mentioned some young 
people, family members and caregivers, out of school time educators, community partners, alumni, 
administrators from within the district, and some who have retired as well. We did engage with other 
types of leaders, some of whom were in this room tonight. 
 
Khari Milner  38:46   
In terms of where and when, the first phase of this BEB project was really about trying to compile, gather, 
listen to the experiences and the voices of a lot of the folks I just mentioned, and started more so in the 
summer of 2018. And this first phase ran through the next school year through June 2019. In terms of the 
where some of this work was happening, we saw and we put together and convened a youth participatory 
action research project in which high school students worked on three issues. And the participatory action 
research model is really leveraging people who are most impacted by an issue as the researchers of that 
topic of that issue that most impacts them so as young people researching issues that are impacting 
themselves. We also had what's called the critical participatory action research or CPR that was primarily 
in school educators, mixed with some out of school educators. And they also had research topics that they 
investigated. These are teachers from across many different schools K through 12 in Cambridge, 
collaborating with some folks at the ED school, and others. And then we also had a large number of focus 
groups which we convened, and we had a facilitator. And we really confidentially took their stories and 
their ideas, and put together a qualitative report, which is something you can see on our website. We had 
sense making teams which took a ton of different streams of information and research and data, both 
quantitative and qualitative, across a number of themes, and these were cross stakeholder groups, which 
included educators, family members, community members, young people from the high school, as well. 
Over five, six months, they met monthly to dive in and to become experts in certain areas. More details on 
the website. As we wrapped up phase one, we had a synthesis retreat, where we took a weekend to take 
all the information coming in from everything I just mentioned, and had an organic and powerful process 
that landed in the nine barriers, which Tessa will talk about in a moment. And we had kind of a final 
event for this phase, which we invited everybody involved to come out, and to say whether or not they 
felt like we got this right, in terms of the barriers that were synthesized. Again, these were young people, 
these were educators, family members, school leaders, other community partners, and that was the first 

City of Cambridge 

Page 8 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

event actually where we had one of the murals, which was created by a high school student and his his 
artist/ mentor. I going to pass it over to Tessa to hear some more about the barriers. 
 
Tessa Bridge  42:08   
Hi everyone.  Coming out of that first year of work, we, in partnership with many folks in our movement, 
named these nine barriers to equity. I'm not going to go deeply into all of them but I did want to call out a 
couple here in this space. And one thing you'll notice, as you look through this list is that they are barriers 
that live at all different levels of our institution. So some of them are really focused on the classroom or 
on the individual relationship between an educator and a teacher. Some of them are more systems of 
privilege of bias, or thinking about power and how that lives in all of the different levels of our 
institutions. So we really heard very directly from folks about how these barriers will live, both in the 
individual experience of a student walking through the hallway of their school, a parent going into parent 
teacher conferences and, the overall system's view of how these things live across our district. So the ones 
that I want to just name today because they're really relevant in the budget process are three and four. So 
that's youth are not centered and educators of color are not being centered, valued and supported. We 
heard both of these themes pretty overarchingly in many of our spaces. As we think about equity and anti 
racism and how that lives in our budget, and in our schools and in our professional development, and in 
our classrooms, and really everywhere in our spaces, three and four are incredibly important. How are we 
centering our young people, and how are we centering our educators of color? And then the other one, 
although all are relevant, that I'm going to specifically call out here is this idea of power and decision 
making and how that's distributed. Who has access to be in the room to make decisions? Who has access 
to influence decisions? And how does that influence the way that our system is serving some versus 
others. So those are just a couple. I encourage you to read more deeply about each of these. If you go to 
our website, you can find all of these barriers with some specific quotes that come directly from folks in 
our community, about how they experience these, it's a very powerful read. So I really encourage you all 
to do that. 
 
Tessa Bridge  44:36   
in addition to the barriers throughout that year of work, we were collecting a number of demands, we 
ended up with a list of over 150 demands that came directly from people in the community. So these were 
actions that folks knew needed to be taken to address the barriers that we were collectively naming so had 
this long list of demands that were all different grade sizes, all different perspectives, coming from a 
variety of stakeholders in the community. And really the idea in this graphic that we're trying to capture is 
that these anti racist actions are what's needed to blow up these barriers. We don't want the barriers to be 
in the way we want this to be an equitable system. And so we need to take some really clear anti racist 
action steps in order to disrupt the barriers and change the status quo, change the way that we are 
educating and being in our schools. 
 
Tessa Bridge  45:37   
In December we released these 12 recommended commitments that were grounded in the demands that 
had come from the movement. Again, that was a list of about 150 demands. When we finished in June 
over the summer, a group of youth, as part of the Mayor's Program, met and did some organizing work. 
We worked with an organization that does youth organizing to support them to hone in on the demands 
that really spoke most to them. We also gathered some information from folks in our movement about 
which demands they felt would most address the barriers as part of that celebration and member check. 
Based on the input from that, we colated the demands that we had down to this list of 12. So, again, I 
encourage you to read through all of these and there's a more detailed version of this on our website, but 
I'll just call out a couple. So number two, the immediate creation and ongoing investment in healing 
spaces and mental health supports for community members harmed by racism. This is one that lives really 
specifically in our buildings as well as at a systems level. We know that there is systematic harm being 
done to people in our community because of racism and the way that it manifests. Healing and care is a 

City of Cambridge 

Page 9 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

religion and is an important part of that, and that sometimes manifests as mental health support, but also, 
as you know, directly addressing and healing from the pain of racism and oppression. And that's true for 
youth, for educators, for administrators, for families, caring for one another is a huge, huge piece of this 
work. Another one is number seven, a new district wide anti racism statement. So as Dr. Salim queued up 
in the beginning, this is building on the equity definitions that currently exist, really pushing onwards 
with that towards anti racism framework. The idea being that there is no neutral here. If we stand still, 
we're actually supporting a system that is harming people. And so we need to continuously be pushing 
ourselves to dismantle those systems of oppression as manifesting in those barriers in all of our choices in 
our policies, in our interpersonal interactions in every level of Our system we need to continue to be 
pushing for it to be anti racist. The idea is by having a clear statement or vision of an of an anti racist 
system, this is something that can live at every level and guide decision making across our schools. So it 
It could be something that lives in this room, something that lives in an instructional leadership team, 
something that lives in a teacher's classroom, something that really is alive in our schools and is a guiding 
post as we make decisions as we go about the business of educating our young people. And then, the 
other ones that I will mention are five and six, so elevating and supporting direct youth power, and the 
creation and ongoing investment in councils of youth, families and educators from traditionally 
marginalized group. This is really at the root of our Building Equity Bridges approach as Khari shared, so 
much of what we've done is to create spaces where folks can come together, share power, share their 
stories, build community and build trust and in that become more powerful in advocating for themselves 
and their families and their communities. So wanting to make sure that that becomes, in some ways, the 
work of our district, how do we create structures that allow for direct power for our young people, for 
direct power for our families, and for our educators, to be able to really advocate for changes that they 
know from their own lived experience that they need. So again, I really would encourage you to go to our 
website and read these in more detail. For the sake of time, those are the ones I'll touch on now. 
 
Khari Milner  49:37   
Thanks. I talked about phase one, and a lot of what you just heard about is informing phase two, in some 
ways, phase two, which is focused on advocacy. It's focused on organizing and it's focused on action, 
based on all the findings and all the learnings from phase one. To be clear, we know that a lot of folks in 
our community, including a lot of people I know personally and people in this room could have written 
some of these barriers without doing this project.  Some folks were very ready and did provide ideas 
about actions on how to dismantle, and how to disrupt some of the things we're seeing in the barriers. And 
again, we were being very intentional to build this foundation of information. Again, elevating voice of 
those we don't typically hear from such that we weren't jumping to conclusions and even I would say 
rushing to do some of the same things in the same ways that have not been effective. That's been also a 
big piece of this project, and what we hope continues to be the strength of this project. So just going 
ahead, Building Equity Bridges or BEB, it doesn't replace anything that the city has been doing. It doesn't 
in any way lessen previous efforts or current efforts, whether it be by young people, by educators, by 
parents, by other community leaders and organizers. We're trying to continue to elevate all of this work. 
And in many ways, particularly since it was initially funded by a grant, BEB is working itself out of its 
sort of visible existence, right? We want to integrate these ideals into our systems and into our 
departments and into our schools-everywhere we can. Thinking ahead, how my Cambridge leaders act on 
learnings from BEB, one thing if you want to learn more about the anti racism framework, you should 
definitely read Dr. Ibram X. Kendi's book, "How to be an Antiracist." As Tessa shared, it is really about 
not being neutral about having a mindset around every decision you make, and to consider what the ripple 
effects of that decision are, and whether they could potentially create status quo or whether they could 
move towards creating more equity around racial lines and decreasing the effects of racism, through 
policy, practice, and processes. Speaking of processes, one thing being discussed tonight is related to the 
budget. We want you to continue to consider the importance of transparency, the importance of 
participatory process, which again includes those who are most impacted. The idea of sharing power, 
which we've heard, this district is continuing to work on, and that we emphasize the need for both input 

City of Cambridge 

Page 10 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

and feedback. These are not easier said than done. We know that the School Department in some ways, 
may be ahead of the curve when compared to other departments and Cambridge is sometimes ahead of 
the curve as compared to other cities. And yet, we still have a ton of work to do. And we have to stay 
focused and committed. So again, thank you for your time and we look forward to working with you in 
the future. 
 
Superintendent Salim  53:14   
Thank you, Khari and Tessa. So along with the the barriers that were surfaced and the important work of 
the Building Equity Bridges, we also examined the climate surveys that they spoke of, as well as other 
important outcome data to develop these priorities that we set for this current school year. The parties that 
both sort of live in the instructional core at number one in the center, that sort of triangle, represents 
what's happened in the classroom because if the work that we're doing is not ultimately affecting what's 
happening between teachers and the students and the presence of content, we're not going to ultimately 
have an impact on academic outcomes and other related outcomes for our students. So the idea around 
focusing on cultural responsive teaching is central to our work for this year, as well as fostering trust and 
relationships that support positive student centered culture. So thinking about the school level, then in that 
second shape in the circle blood, the light blue circle, we also want to think about sort of capacity 
accountability at all levels to address some of the systemic barriers to racial equity, and thinking at a 
systems level about how building on Khari's last point how we can make sure that our systems are 
transparent, inclusive, evidence based and equitable in our work. And so in other ways in which we have 
been able to build on this work and move forward are represented in some of these steps that we have 
built on with some of the work with youth and with other educators across the system, building on some 
of the microaggressions working group work that Dr. Turk, our Deputy Superintendent, led last year. We 
are finalizing improved Incident Response System and partnership with student government. The 
intersectionality Club, the Black Student Union have all had input into the development of ideas related to 
what that could look like, the anti racism and racial equity statements. This concept around what do we 
want to make sure that all staff across our system can demonstrate as competencies related to anti racism 
and racial equity. We're exploring different models around an Office of Equity, while we can learn from 
our colleagues in other school districts of what has worked and what have been barriers and challenges, 
and a curriculum review on how we're looking at our curriculum in CPS through an equity lens around 
representation, historical accuracy, and cultural responsiveness. We're continuing to work on some of 
these other areas around strengthening our affinity group structures to engage youth staff and families, 
from traditionally marginalized groups and our school based work around families and engaging in 
community based discussions with family and staff and our work around restorative practices and how we 
can actually those as we look at some of the data related to discipline and school climate. So from there, I 
want to shift and just share a little bit before turning it over to Mayor Siddiqui and conversations with the 
City Council and School Committee of some of the key takeaways from principals, educators and the 
community. And just to share a few highlights related to that. This came from work that actually began 
really during the last term with Vice Chair Bowman, chairing the Governance subcommittee and a real 
interest around that fourth priority around how can we make processes like the budget, less opaque and 
more transparent and inclusive. And so we've had budget presentations that have included more framing 
and context to try to put more clear information on our website, and graphics to make it more accessible. 
We have this new meeting format that I alluded to earlier of having community meetings for educators 
and staff and for families to engage in discussion in order to gather some of the input around the budget 
priorities. We posted all that feedback on our website. So we had some of the raw data and comments 
accessible to folks that weren't able to come to the citywide senior center or to the CRLS for those 
community meetings. And we have built in additional time in the schedule for School Committee to 
review adjustments from the proposed budget. So the time from March 12th to when the committee will 
be voting on the budget has been expanded as well. When we engage in these community meetings, we 
organize it around these questions so that it was focused on our outcomes, thinking about what resources 
would look like in order to improve academic outcomes for all students to foster positive student centered 

City of Cambridge 

Page 11 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

school cultures, engaging students in learning and improving how we partner with families to support 
student success.  More specifically with our principals, looked at our work around mathematics at the 
upper school and elementary school, social emotional learning supports, the work around positive student 
centered school cultures, the level up work at CRLS, summer vacation programming, as well as our 
overall work and racial equity. And so if you were to double click on these community input and principal 
educators, we organize these in the next set of slides around our different objectives of equity and access, 
engaged learning, whole child, family community partnership and improvement. I'm not going to read 
through each of these, but just wanted to share these as a reference and to lift up a couple of them in the 
objective of equity and access, heard a lot around sort of this idea around how can we make sure that 
when we're thinking about summer programming, we're reducing as many of the barriers and obstacles as 
possible to families and students participating in some of that summer programming,  Including 
opportunities for full day transportation, lunch and fun, as part of that summer experience. A lot of 
comments around continuing to deepen our work around recruitment, retention and professional pathways 
for educators of color. While we've started really exciting work around pathways and around expanding 
the power professional to teacher pipeline, what are ways we might be able to deepen and expand that. 
Around the objective of engaging learning, we heard a lot in conversations around how can we better 
identify and identify earlier reading challenges that students may encounter? So thinking about our grade 
three literacy outcome, how can certain tools we use to identify early reading challenges and what kind of 
professional learning is necessary for educators to be able to meet those needs for students? One area that 
I spoke about briefly and a couple slides ago, this idea around how can we review curriculum, class 
celebrations for cultural responsiveness, historical accuracy and representation. 
 
Superintendent Salim  1:00:08   
On the on the next slide, we have objective three of the whole child, a lot of important discussion around 
school based capacity to address students mental and behavioral needs. This is certainly an area that has 
been a focus for the committee over the last several years around looking at the phenomenon that exists 
across our Commonwealth and really across our country of more students coming into JK and K with 
experiences of trauma and how we can best meet the needs of those, particularly our youngest learners. 
And then also this last one around that process and staff capacity to address student reports of racial 
incidents and other inappropriate behavior are other important areas that were raised by our  youth as well 
as community under family community partnership. A couple of years ago, we expanded our Family 
Liaison model from our elementary school liaison to the Upper School liaisons and some discussion 
around what it might look like to increase capacity of those liaisons in supporting our middle grade 
students.  
 
Superintendent Salim  1:01:27   
As it relates to the fourth bullet on the left, this idea really came from actually one of CPAR Research 
studies as well as many conversations across the community around how can we build understanding 
among families of privilege about ways to support a more equitable system and thinking about how 
privilege plays into voice and how that voice is incorporated into decision making. The last objective is 
implementation and continuous improvement and an area that continues to be an ongoing focus is this 
idea of what does it look like to continue to evaluate our systems? How do we think about what are we 
starting? What are we stopping? What are we scaling, to move closer to the outcomes that we desire in the 
system for our students? And then this last point, an area that we spent considerable time on last year 
exploring issues around time and collaboration time as well as student learning time? How can we think 
about strategic scheduling to look at how we are using time and staff more effective way to meet the 
needs, particularly of our most vulnerable youth. So those are just a few highlights. I know there's a lot of 
information here. I know I'm going through it quickly but just wanted to have an opportunity to lift up 
some of those examples to set the stage for discussion and comments. And with that, I'll turn it over to 
Mayor Siddiqui. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 12 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  1:02:55   
Great. So I'm going to start with my City Council colleagues.  Specifically, I'll start with the Finance Co-
Chairs, Councillor Simmons and Councillor Carlone.   I will then go to the Vice Mayor. After that I will 
go alphabetically and hopefully Councillor McGovern will join by then.  Followed by Councillor Nolan, 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler and Councillor Zondervan.  I woulld like all of you to say a few comments 
and then state your questions. I suggested 2-3 minutes as I'm looking at the time. So Councillor Simmons, 
I'll start with you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:03:34   
Thank you, Madam Chair, just a process question because you said the meeting will end at 7:30 and I'm 
really alright with that. At 7:30 I have a hard stop. I just don't know how we're going to be able to get 
through everything and I guess I'm looking to you to see if you'd be willing to perhaps have another 
opportunity for us to have this discussion because I don't think we're going to be able to get to everything. 
It is hard to have the give and take discussion with such a short amount of time. The presentations were 
very informative, but they were long. That being said, just briefly, and I don't know what to opine on the 
budget or the Building Equity Bridges, so I just chose the Building Equity Bridges part of it.  Let me 
introduce myself to you. I'm a grandparent, I've been a parenting grandparent, I've been a parent, and I'm 
a policy maker. So I have a real vested interest in the outcomes of education for my child or 
grandchildren, and for her cohort of children. And so, this is not my first time sitting and listening to our 
HR tea laced conversations around transparency, talking and taking us over terrain that we have already 
traversed. Let me share that with you. So in 1945 there was an organization of Civic Unity and they 
looked at issues of educational disparity. In 1945, Gordon Allport who was a member of that civic unity 
committee wrote a book on the bigot in our midst. It was written by Gordon Allport of Harvard 
University. Then in 1958, there was the landlady study that talked about discrimination-how landlady's 
would not rent to African Americans in particular, in certain neighborhoods. In 1960, The Concerned 
Black Parents came together on this very same issue that we are talking about now.  In 1980 the 
Concerned Black [    ] did a report that talked about why black students were not in higher academic 
standing.  In 1990 we had the Successful Black Male report. We had teachers ask us what does a 
successful black male look like? And then in 1990, there was another city wide discussion around race 
and class and Cambridge and we asked was a city wide discussion, engaged everyone and we asked at 
that time for both bodies of the city to put money into race equity. Fast forward-in 1990, remember Peggy 
Averide and the burning of a cross on her lawn? It was it did make a point and she did leave. In 2000 
there was the Native Born Black Report or somthing to that effect. Now it's 2018and we  have the Equity 
Access the expansion of the Equity Access Program, Becoming a Man very underfunded. And now we're 
here at Building Equity Bridges. What am I saying? My favorite quote, and you've heard it before, "We 
can if we want to educate every child whose education is important to us." So why can't we? So if I don't 
get all sort of juiced up about the Building Equity Bridges, it's not because I don't think it's a good 
initiative, I just think we're just doing it agai.  We're doing the same thing. I want to know what the 
outcomes are. If you identified the problem in this report, and I didn't read it as I just got it a couple of 
days ago. My question is what is it that you expect to achieve? When do you expect to achieve it? 
Because it's not about money, so I'm not going to ask about money although I don't think the City Council 
should fund it.  What are you going to tie it to? Are you going to tie it to classroom performance? Are we 
going to stand up and I said "we" because I'm buying into this, make the hard choices, that when we see 
education is not happening for all children in places, take the stand that it takes to do it. Because if we're 
not, then we need to just go home. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:08:24   
I've had the pleasure to be here since 1980. And again, now it's HRT wrap speech, talking about 
transparency and all these other kinds of things with no plan of action in sight. It starts in the 
policymaker, the policy maker which I which we are all so I'm taking responsibility here holding the 
Superintendent accountable for delivering and the Superintendent is supposed to hold department heads 

City of Cambridge 

Page 13 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

and principals and administrators accountable. If that's not happening, then we might as well not waste 
our time. I had the pleasure and privilege to go to Harlem Children's Zone and Mr. Canada had this 
attitude. If you don't turn it around in a year, you need to do something else. You can plant petunias, raise 
puppies, whatever, but you can't teach children. So my question is, if this is not going to be laced in 
accountability and we are not saying that if a classroom is not performing, maybe you're a really good 
person, but maybe this is not the field for you. Or if you're a really good administrator, but maybe this is 
not a field for you. I just went over over 20 years how many students have left this school district saying 
the same thing that kids that just last year were saying, When are we going to get a fair chance? So with 
that, I will yield the floor. But my question that I don't think is going to be answered is if you're not 
willing to make people accountable make the hard choices grapple with the idea of power and privilege 
and bias, then let's not waste our time. I yield the floor. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  1:10:07   
Thank you, Councillor Simmons 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  1:10:09   
Point of Information Madam Chair. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  1:10:11   
Councillor Zondervan.   
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  1:10:12   
Thank you, through you to my colleague, What do you mean when you say HRT? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:10:19   
It's basically a way of speaking. It comes out of the valley girl model. Most of these conversations here 
have been laced with that. I spend a lot of time talking to African Americans and African American 
parents.  In particular, we talk about wanting people to stop making presentations iusing that vernacular. 
It's insulting. It's insulting to us. It's insulting to a lot of us. And so I just want us to be more mindful 
about using it because it's really becoming systematic about how we make presentations. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  1:10:58   
I'm going to just repeat the question that I heard which was tying the Building Equity Bridges work to 
outcomes. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:11:08   
I'm not interested in the Building Equity Bridges.  It is just a new label for the same old thing. What I'm 
asking is At what standard are we going to raise up? What what's the goal? How do we know when we 
get there? And what are we going to do if we're not reaching it? You know, let's think-my granddaughter 
is going to be a first grader. Are we going to be in the same place when she walks across the stage? We 
need to have children's voices and we need more transparency and people have to get rid of their power. 
And we have to deal with anti bias. I'm not trying to be disrespectful, I'm just downright out of patience.  
Patience with having the same conversations that we've been having since 1945. So if we're not willing to 
take hard steps. In other words, if you put benchmarks in place and say for purposes of conversation, the 
benchmark is Classroom A. And we say Classroom A, this is where your kids are. And if we don't see 
Classroom a move in a year or two, then maybe we need to make some very difficult choices around who 
is in Classroom A. If Classroom A is doing really well, are we going to reward Classroom A with 
additional tools? What what are we going to do if we don't see some results. In last year's budget, we saw 
that the achievement numbers went up. But the gap did not close appreciably. It's those kind of issues. 
What are you going to do after you've funded programs to make that change to close that gap and it 
doesn't happen. So what I love about Cambridge is we're willing to try new things right? So before we 

City of Cambridge 

Page 14 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

know what works well or doesn't work, we've already moved to something else. So the question is, how 
are we going to measure success? How long are we going to wait to get it? And what are we going to do 
if we do not get it? The buck stops with us. And in this case, a buck stops with the Superintendent.  I like 
him and he is a nice gentleman, but if he is not doing the work, then we have to evaluate that as well. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  1:13:29   
Thank you for sharing your opinion Councillor Simmons, we will move on to Councillor Carlone 
followed by the Vice Mayor. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  1:13:36   
Thank you, Madam Mayor. Obviously, this is a very complex and much too long of an issue that hasn't 
been resolved, but actually, as my fellow Councillor just said, the good news is we're the decision makers.  
The leaders are at the front of the table and at the other side, but we are the decision makers. So if we are 
serious we can we can do wonderful things. I  thought the presentation was excellent. I thought it was 
right on. The one thing I said to Khari and Tessa is that it seems to me it's got to start very early with kids 
building their confidence, teaching them what's right and what's wrong about relating to people. I think as 
a city we we don't do a very good job with that. That's something that we've talked about a lot at City 
Council of getting an expanded Pre K program. In my businesses as an architect and urban designer, we 
would do wonderful designs, wonderful strategies, some in Cambridge and they didn't happen and they 
didn't happen because the hardest thing is implementation, understanding the strategy even though you 
get 100% approval, people love it. It's following through. This is a small group of people here that could 
insist, building on what Councillor Simmons said, that it happens. I see nothing wrong with reviving 
ideas, expanding on ideas over the years, and trying again.  If you don't try again, nothing will happen. 
You have to know what you're aiming for. So I salute the effort. I would bet all of us are 100% behind it. 
The key is evaluating it. We in the city do not evaluate many things. That is the key. I'm very glad to have 
been here and I thank you for the invitation and the work that's been done tonight. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  1:16:05   
Thank you Councillor Carlone. We'll hear from the Vice Mayor and then go to Councillor McGovern 
followed by Councillor Nolan. Vice Mayor. 
 
Member Weinstein  1:16:14   
Thank you, Madam Mayor. I just want to echo and respect my colleague in her frustration. I feel it. I 
appreciate the history and understanding how many times we have been at this point and at a precipice 
when we could make a difference and we haven't. I am frustrated also. Member Bowman mentioned in 
her presentation earlier that we would see numbers and they were being honest about numbers and about 
outcomes. They weren't in this presentation. I'm disappointed about that. I think we can't have a real 
conversation, about equity, about outcomes about accountability without numbers and facts and data. I 
would really like to see the School Department put together some numbers of where we were, where we 
are right now, and to speak to those outcomes, goals and accountability. I think the community has asked 
us all to present a transformative budget for the School Department. Transformative in how its presented, 
how it's written, whose voices are were centered and asked, and how and what is being funded. The 
Building Equity Bridges, while it's not a new idea, while bringing people together and a coalition and a 
cohort to talk about what needs to be done isn't a new idea. I do feel that we are in a moment right now 
where we need to act. Thankfully we have had the last 18 months of proactively cultivating that trust with 
the community, with people and families and youth who we wring our hands out at these meetings and 
say we just can't get them to the table, we just don't know how to reach them. This group has proactively 
cultivated trust with families that are typically hard to reach and brought them to the table to talk about 
the barriers to their children's success. In this city, we do a lot of reporting. We bring together task forces 
and red ribbon commissions. We put together a study and lots of times those go on the shelf. If you're 
doing one about Central Square, and you just spent the last 18 months putting that together and it goes on 

City of Cambridge 

Page 15 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

a shelf, well, that stinks. When you do it for your kids, and your family, and their outcomes and their 
academic achievements and success, it's personal. We need to treat it that way. I'm glad that we're having 
this conversation now because having it in May is way too late. That's when we had it last time. I feel like 
frustrations and emotions were really running high but we were at a point where we just couldn't. It was a 
train that just kept going. I think having this conversation now and trying to figure out between now and 
when we have to approve the budget, and when the School Committee has to approve the budget, who are 
we bringing to the table and listening to and really thinking about who, who is going to help make these 
decisions about what this transformative budget looks like? What it funds, because it isn't always about 
money. You're absolutely right. It's about political will. It's about knowing what we're going for, what 
those outcomes are, those goals and what the accountability factors are at the end of the day. My question 
is I attended a community meeting on the budget. I want to know how we are engaging those who we 
have engaged over the last 18 years,  months from now, until when the budget is finally presented. How 
are we engaging them? Are we having one more community meeting and we hope that they come? Are 
we having additional meetings with that cohort of people who have come every time? So my question is, 
what is happening between now and when the budget is presented to center those voices that have put in 
the work and would like to see a transformative budget. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  1:20:26   
Thank you, Vice Mayor. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  1:20:29   
Councillor McGovern. 
 
Mayor Marc McGovern  1:20:33   
Thank you, Madam Mayor. Thank you for putting this together. One of the things that I spoke about 
seems like just yesterday in this room was what one of the things that I hope to see in the budget is a 
much more intentional, targeted sort of approach to helping students that we know are not performing as 
well as as we would like. I think the number was 14, maybe it was 16, third graders who performed in the 
lowest percentile on the MCAS. You all know my feelings about MCAS. I have very mixed feelings 
about it, but it is a measure. We're not Los Angeles, we're not New York, we're not Chicago. Those are 14 
kids that we know. Right? We know their names, we know their families, we know their dogs. What are 
we doing? We talk a lot about a lot of things and I often say that the hardest thing to say to a parent or 
caregiver is, in five years, we're going to make so much progress. Your son or daughter doesn't have those 
five years to lose, right. I think the Building Equity Bridges work is fantastic. I heard Councillor 
Simmons and I think she's correct.  We have taken a bite at this apple a number of times but there is no 
line item that we're going to put in the budget that's going to eradicate institutional racism. That's just not 
how it works. This is going to be an ongoing conversation, we're going to have to continue to make 
progress. It's not something we're going to solve in a budget but there are targeted things that we can do 
that can really help those kids who we know need more support. I don't care if it's every one of those. I'm 
not the educational expert. Maybe this isn't the right way to go. But I don't know if it's every one of those 
kids gets a mentor, I don't know if it's every one of those kids gets a tutor. I don't know what it is. We 
know who these kids are. We're small enough and we're resourced enough that we could be targeting 
resources more directly to those students than I think we often do. That's something I hope to see. It is 
important to have more conversation about partnerships between the city and schools. I've often said that 
we could have the greatest, buildings in the world, we could have the greatest teachers in the world. If you 
still have kids that are going home to no food or no lights, or who don't have high quality early childhood 
education, or don't have a high quality after school program, then the great teachers and the great 
buildings are only going to be one piece of that. Where are we connecting? What are the city levers that 
we could be pulling on our side and the Council side that's going to support what's going on in the schools 
and in the school district when the students aren't in school. We need more of a conversation of what is 
the holistic picture of this for young people in our city, both on the city side and the school side. Lastly, 

City of Cambridge 

Page 16 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

the Vice Mayor mentioned political will. I think I've done 10 School Committee budgets directly, and I 
know how this goes, and budget will come out. There's a lot more participation from the community on 
the school side than the city side, people actually show up to the School Committee budget meetings. 
What happens is that mostly groups of people who look a lot more like me than not like me, show up at 
meetings and say, wait a minute, you're cutting that one position from my school? No, no, no, don't do it. 
Don't do it. They put pressure on School Committee members individually and as a committee, and then 
we lose sight of what that vision is, and we back off and we give folks what they want, and it's only 
certain groups of people that have the power and the influence to do that. I encourage you on the School 
Committee to be courageous, and to be strong.If this work around equity is really what's going to center 
us and that means that we're going to have to make adjustments in other places or we're going to have to 
put more money into helping those students who aren't excelling already, then resist the pressure and do 
that. Inevitably what happens is we back off of what our overall values are because we get political 
pressure to do that. The political pressure isn't coming most of the most of the time from the families of 
the kids who really need us to step up for them. Please be strong in that and and I look forward to more 
conversation. Thank you, Madam Chair. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  1:25:48   
Thank you, Councillor McGovern Councillor Nolan. 
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan  1:25:57   
It's feeling kind of like home and kind of like a totally new room here. I'm very aware of that. The fact 
that is that this is a new side of the table for me, and I really appreciate all the work that's been done to 
move this forward. I don't think my comments will surprise anyone who has worked with me over the last 
while. I share the views of everyone. I just encourage all of us to remember that at the heart of it, higher 
expectations and goals are what will get us somewhere. It has to be married to a very specific action plan 
we can have all the words we want. The work that has gone into setting the table which is how the 
Building Equity Bridges, which there's been many, many work over my years here and also before that 
decades, it sounds like as Councillor Simmons; history showed us that if we keep that focus and that the 
growth mindset truly has to mean every single student can learn it's a well proven, highly researched, 
unbelievably well documented educational mantra, that growth mindset literally moves the needle on 
achievement. That is at the heart also. I think of anti racism work because in order to have a growth 
mindset, you literally have to believe every single student,  no matter how they look, how they present, or 
what their background is, can really learn. What I encourage us to do is make sure that even though we've 
encouraged more people in the room, there's nothing like a broad based survey to ensure that truly all 
families are heard. You cannot get that no matter how much you outreach into a focus group. It's not the 
same as having a very broad survey of families and students across the board. I also want to encourage all 
of us to take the words of Councillor Carlone and other too, we don't often use our own evaluations. Well 
have some programs that work really well. We need to be building on those. I would make a plea for 
really doubling down on two elements. One is to make sure that the outcome measures have to be 
dramatically changed. We should not have in public that we expect one fifth the number of African 
American students to succeed compared to white students. If we don't believe ourselves that we can't get 
100% of proficiency, we really shouldn't be doing this work. I understand that. I haven't seen the full 
report. But throughout this document, there's a lot of mention of summer programs I really want to hear. 
So what is the plan? If that summer program that MIT led jointly with the district didn't have the results 
that we wanted, then let's build on it to understand why.  I keep coming back to if you actually think about 
the number of students we're talking about to get every single current kindergartener to 100% proficiency 
by third grade, that's three years. It's only a few hundred students. We are not New York, we're not LA, 
we're not even Boston. A few hundred students with an intensive high quality summer program over three 
summers. I am 1,000% sure that our educators with a carefully crafted program can do that. We should do 
it and we must do it. That will go a long way to addressing the inequities that we see later. We know 
there's a reason that practically every district in the state has third grade literacy as a as a goal that they're 

City of Cambridge 

Page 17 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

working towards. In math we still have schools where ten eighth graders in one school go into geometry 
and successfully complete algebra and another one it's 50 or 60 kids. This is seven years after we 
restructured. Some of us in this room, me crying on the floor took a vote to restructure our school saying 
that will be fixed. It is unconscionable that we just don't talk openly about how it is that that continues to 
happen and more importantly, identify why and then say that will never happen again. We will do 
whatever it takes. I believe highly in targeted high quality summer programs can address that. We can't 
have more reports like that. This is saying, yes, let's have the urgency, but also we can get there. We do 
know there are some issues, let's have a much more disruptive budget, and yet built on research, built on 
data, built on what we know. Our community is really small. We can do this and I will do whatever I can 
from this side of the table to encourage a reallocation of dollars. I personally don't think we need more 
dollars. This is an incredibly generous budget. I do think we have to reallocate and redirect the dollars that 
we have, and have that accountability, front and center and infused into every single evaluation of every 
educator, of every principal, of every administrator in the district to make sure it's tied very closely and I 
believe Councillor Simmons said with Geoffrey Canada that a year is enough to show dramatic progress. 
We know that it can be so I look forward to that. I encourage all of you sitting in those seats to encourage 
us or push us and push our community and push everyone in this district to set the bar really high and 
we'll get there. But we got to set that bar high, it is way too low for all students. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  1:31:22   
Thank you Councillor Nolan.  
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan  1:31:28   
On the School Committeee website there is a dashboard that explicitly lays out what the goals are for all 
of the the outcome measures with specific data year to year.  I personally think they need to be ramped up 
and change it which I had talked about when I was here. You know that when you meet a three year goal 
in one year you should change your goal. If any of you who want it, it is on the website. The dashboard is 
available with the goals that were set by the School Committee 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  1:31:53   
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler. 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler  1:31:56   
Thank you for all the work that went into presentations today. My perspective on this is that  I graduated 
high school less than 10 years ago in June 2010. This isn't that far away from me.  I think any high school 
student could address the issues in the district and that there's a lot of talk that ends up happening in City 
Council and School Committee meetings  that doesn't filter back into the classroom debate issues that 
everyone can see. To echo Councillor Simmons points, it's easy to talk about being anti racist, it's harder 
to address the big structural changes that we know are perpetuating racism in our district, and economic 
inequality. One of the main ways that we're going to do that is through the budget. I think an analogy that 
I think of a lot on the City Council is that when we're talking about affordable housing is not how strong 
the City Council statement on affordable housing is, it is how much are we putting into the budget? What 
are we including on the zoning. I hope we have a strong statement around affordable housing, but that's 
not going to be the main way I'm judging if the Council is doing or not doing enough work. I echo Vice 
Mayor Mallon's point that I would have liked to see more metrics on the presentation. What are the 
achievement gaps between white students and students of color at different grade levels? How are we 
addressing that in the budget? How many educators of color do we have? How many are we retaining? 
Where do we want to get to? How are we addressing that in the budget? What's the gap? Who's going to 
college or technical school between white students and students of color? How are we addressing that in 
the budget? I think the question I have is around universal Pre K and how we're thinking of that in the 
budge. It wasn't mentioned in the presentation. I think it's one of the strongest things we can do to address 
anti racism because we know that there's a big correlation between white families and families of color in 

City of Cambridge 

Page 18 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

terms of economic resources, and that if you have resources, you can get your your child into a Pre k 
program and if you're not you're really reliant on the city. I think it's something that the Council and 
School Committee have talked about for a long time. How do we get to universal Pre K. We still think 
there's a chicken or an egg in terms of spatial issues. I know there was a roundtable shortly before I 
started on the City Council but we're still a ways off in terms of how do we get to Pre K, how do we get 
the space? How do we get the resources for it? I think one of the strongest things we can do to address 
racism is having a concrete plan there. I would like to address that in the budget. Thank you. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  1:34:21   
Thank you, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  1:34:25   
Councillor Toomey. Would you like to go last? Okay, Councillor Zondervan. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  1:34:44   
Thank you, Madam Mayor. First of all, I want to affirm the comments from my colleagues. I pretty much 
agree with all of them. I have two children who went through the public school system here, and one of 
them is doing really great and was very successful in the system. One was not. We had to, unfortunately, 
take him out of the school because it was not able to provide him with what he needs. We were fortunate 
that we could, as a family, provide him with the education that he needed. But what keeps me up at night 
is all of his friends who do not have those resources, and who do not have the education that they need to 
be successful and the support that they need to be successful. So I share the frustration. I'm particularly 
intrigued by the comments about political will because the only political tool that we have at the Council 
level at the end of the day is our vote on the budget. Councillor Kelley and I were the only two 
councillors who voted against the budget last year. Councillor Simmons voted against the School budget, 
but she did not vote against the entire budget and I did and Councillor Kelley did, because we want it to 
be clear that the budget was not acceptable to us in terms of equity. I'm really encouraged by the change 
in the conversation here today and the great work that's going on in Building Equity Bridges, and really 
want to commend Khari and Tessa for their work and for their presentation. I think it's really important 
and I understand the frustration that we've been talking about this for more than half a century longer than 
I've been alive. I don't believe we've talked about it this clearly and honestly before. To hear, essentially, 
the statement that our school system and our entire system is racist is encouraging to me because once we 
name that, once we begin to grapple with that reality, we have a chance of making it better. If we're 
dancing around it, and we're not naming it, then that's when we get into trouble. I'm encouraged to see 
that the school system will be coming out with an anti racism statement. One of my many questions is, 
when will that happen and what's the process for drafting that statement? In terms of equity, not just in 
our school system, but in our in our city. One of the issues that we've been talking about for quite some 
time now is municipal broadband and access to the internet, which is a phenomenal resource that allows a 
lot of people to bypass some of the inequities that previously prevented them from access to information 
and access to resources. Ufortunately, the city has so far refused to provide universal high speed internet 
access to everyone. We invented the internet in the United States of America. We have some of the worst 
internet access in the world today, just less than 20 years later. So I think that is an important issue that 
we need to address when we talk about equity, not just for students, but in general. Another question I 
have is the role School Councils and whether we have functioning School Councils for all of our schools, 
and how they have been included in this process. I completely agree with my colleagues that I want to see 
numbers. I know that the achievement gap is visible on our dashboard. I've seen it, but I want to see it in 
these presentations. I want to see what our new goals are. Are we going to simply perpetuate the 
achievement gap? That's not acceptable. If that's what comes before us in May, I will vote against the 
budget again. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  1:39:40   

City of Cambridge 

Page 19 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

Some of the numbers that were shown to us are not clear. The budget increase is great, and it is quite 
large, but without knowing what the enrollment numbers are, we can't really tell. Is this increase simply 
matching the enrollment, is it going beyond enrollment? At the high level, it masks the details as 
Councillor McGovern stated. Without knowing where specific funds are going, we don't know if this 
increase is going to impact our equity concerns or not. So we want to see those numbers. Again, if the 
process is that we don't get to see that until May, I think we will not have the outcomes that we're looking 
for and hopefully more of my colleagues will be voting against the budget if that is how it's presented to 
us because that's not acceptable. My last question is around climate change. I mentioned this last year as 
well. The future is not looking good and we are not educating our students on that issue and we're not 
preparing them for the challenges that they're facing because of climate change and our inaction on that 
issue. We have seen in the last year, student activists, including Greta Tunberg, most famously, really 
speak out on this issue and really bring attention to it. It really impacts the younger generations in a very 
different way than it impacts some of us who are a bit older. So I need to see  in our budget for me to vote 
in favor of it, how we are addressing that issue. It's not just about teaching our students math and reading. 
It's about teaching them what the world is like that they are facing, and what opportunities exist for them 
to participate in meaningful change as we adapt to climate change, and as we start to take real action on it. 
So I would like to see more information on how that is being addressed in the budget. Thank you. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  1:42:09   
Thank you, Councillor Toomey. 
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey  1:42:16   
Thank you, Madam Mayor. I apologize for my unexpected delay in getting here this evening. This will be 
my 35th year voting on a School budget. Mr. Fantini has probably exceeded me for a couple of years.  I'm 
very heartened to hear one of my colleagues saying that we have to address and get the data in 
accountability. It's probably a personnel matter, but at some point, I hope that the Superintendent can 
share with us that personnel changes have been made because of poor performance. I will not be inclined 
to vote for any more additional funding. We are spending, spending spending. We just can't keep 
throwing money at the issue. It's time to think out of the box and I think of one example and I correct me 
if I'm wrong. I recently heard that in one of the elementary schools that retired teachers were tutoring 
students in first and second grade that were having difficulty reading math on a one on one basis, but that 
program was discontinued.  That is no longer being provided to those students. These are the type of 
things that I think we should be looking at expanding, not curtailing or cutting. It's the one on one 
attention. We know who the children are. Why those resources are not doubled or tripled to assist those 
students.  Some of the kids in the system are going to succeed no matter what. They they are on a 
trajectory to be very successful and that is tremendous. At the same time, we have to recognize that there 
are some families and some students that aren't as fortunate and how we direct more resources to those 
students is what has to take place thinking out of the box. I haven't been as involved with the schools as I 
once was when I was on the School Committee many years ago but as Councillor Simmons said, we have 
been talking about this forever.  The City Manager has been very generous. I think it's almost a $12 
million increase in School budget this year. What results are we going to see with that increase.  I 
certainly voted against the School budget in the past due to different issues. I still have very major 
concerns about our vocational program that I think is sorely lacking.  There are some students that are not 
going to go to college, and they need the vocational training. I don't think that there is enough focus on 
that area and it is very, very unfortunate. So it's a new School Committee and I'm looking forward to this 
great excitement and new City Council members but this is nothing new.  This is my 35th year voting on 
a School budget and waiting to see how that's going to pan out. The Mayor is a recent graduate of the 
school and she's a perfect example. Mayor Siddiqui should be the model as to what every student should 
be able to accomplish in our school system.  She's a prime example of a what can happen with the right 
resources and the right direction. To me, that is what it's all about. There are many kids that are not 
getting that same opportunity as the Mayor has been given. It's frustrating for a lot of people. There's no 

City of Cambridge 

Page 20 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

question about that. I I know there are union issues, but the kids come as far as I'm concerned. The 
Nativity Prep School in Roxbury students come from the most disadvantaged families, and they're all 
graduating at the top and going off to college. Why is that happening in those communities, and not here? 
That has always puzzled me. Something drastic has to take place. Money is not the issue. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  1:47:17   
Thank you Councillor Toomey. We started a little bit late so what I'm going to do now is briefly hear 
from my School Committee members if they'd like to comment on anything that's been said briefly. I'm 
going to toss it back to the Superintendent. Taking Councillor Simmons' recommendation, there will be a 
follow up to this conversation. We've all noted questions and we will do everything to answer those 
questions.  I will go to Vice Chair Bowman first.   
 
Vice Chair Bowman  1:47:57   
With all due respect, Mayor, I don't think it's what wise to have the School Committee give brief 
comments, because this is a roundtable and we're supposed to be in conversation with our colleagues and 
our administration. I do recognize that the time is short right now. But if there's a possibility to extend the 
meeting, I think that's important because, quite frankly, I don't really like the tenor of this conversation. 
The City Council, while I appreciate your frustration, I have the same frustration, a lot of frustration as it 
relates to changing the opportunity and equity gaps within our school district. But I believe that it needs to 
be a conversation around a partnership. A partnership doesn't look like the City Council coming in here, 
and having the type of conversation that we're having, and then the School Committee don't get to be back 
in conversation with them. So I think that's a bit problematic. If we can t extend the meeting by 15 or 20 
minutes, I'll be mindful of my minutes. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  1:48:54   
So Vice Chair, I think the goal of this meeting for me, is that it is important to hear from the City Council 
about the themes that are coming up and the questions that are coming up. , I think the tenor is complex, 
but I do think assuming good intentions we're here for a reason. I think the goal is to share that input and 
then to have further conversations and have a conversation. But you know, I think that the goal was, since 
most of us have seen this information, to hear from my colleagues, so that's why I did the structure that I 
did. You've asked the meeting to be extended 15 minutes. I'm happy to do that if people are comfortable 
with that. So on the meeting will be extended by 15 minutes and then hear from members starting from 
from the Vice Chair and then I'll probably go alphabetically if that works. I'll go to Member Fantini after 
as Budget Co-Chair. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:49:59   
Madam Chair, I do respect my colleague, the Vice Chair, but I do have to leave. I do apologize in 
advance. I want to say very briefly, I agree with you having served on the School Committee. I look 
forward to having this conversation again. Maybe we lead with the School Committee, and the City 
Council sit there and listen and have the opportunity to have a real exchange. Again, I do apologize to my 
colleagues, I do have a hard stop at 7:30. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  1:50:21   
Thank you Councillor. Vice Chair.   
 
Vice Chair Bowman  1:50:24   
Yes, I'll be mindful of my comments and my time. I do want to just acknowledge the concern and the 
angst that all of my colleagues have expressed. As I said earlier, I feel it too. It is one of the things that 
has driven a different approach to our budget process. I recognize that these issues are complex, but I 
want to just address a couple of things as it relates to some of the things my colleagues said. They said 
that voting the budget up or down is one of the few things that they can do to influence the budget. I just 

City of Cambridge 

Page 21 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

want to fundamentally reject that. You have levers on your side, you have Community Schools. How are 
you leveraging those institutions to be in conversation with the school district? I wonder where my 
colleagues were when we had a whole conversation about extending the day. We know that there are 
certain cohorts of kids within our school district that need that time but there was a disconnect as it relates 
to that conversation when it came to the district and where City Councilors came in or out of that. Since 
we weren't able to move that forward, then how do you leverage the fact that we do have an infrastructure 
in place-community schools- to ensure that a certain percentage of the programming that's offered has an 
academic component. That's innovation, that's partnership. I think the way in which we solve these 
problems is not necessarily coming to the School Committee and saying the things that you know, X, Y 
and Z, I think that's a part of the conversation. Innovation happens when we recognize the resources that 
we have and we leverage them in a way that's going to benefit all of our kids when we know that there are 
systems and externalities that block us from being able to implement certain programming that we think 
would move the needle. I would also push on my colleagues right now in real time, we're having a whole 
conversation about the Tobin building. You want to talk about equity, you want to talk about access. 
Right now we are talking about decreasing the number of Pre K slots and programs that would be there, 
because people have a value proposition of open space. 
 
Vice Chair Bowman  1:52:35   
So we talk about wanting to put forth universal Pre K in place, but we have these opportunities right 
before us. What will be your vote on that? What will be your decision? So I think that having a 
conversation that is real, as relates to both of the opportunities that we have, whether that's on the School 
Committee side, and the City side to be able to move the needle on educational issues is something that 
we all need to look in the mirror at because your ability to influence academic achievement is not 
necessarily just caught up in whether or not you vote a budget up or down. I just think is really important 
for all of us to know that. I think it's important for the public to know that. It is not a one way 
conversation, it is a two way conversation about how we leverage resources and data. I'm right there with 
you. I fundamentally believe that that should have been a part of our conversation tonight, and we will 
make sure for the next conversation that is in front of you, instead of directing you to a website so I take 
full agency and ownership of that, but I just believe we have to have this conversation differently if we're 
all committed to really being able to meet some of these major disparities in our in our school district. 
 
Councillor Sumbul Siddiqui  1:53:51   
Member Fantini. 
 
Unknown Speaker  1:53:53   
Thank you Madam Mayor. I want to you know, and thank the City Council.  This is being done early 
enough. I really want to just hear what the City Councilors had to say, and thank you for your honesty and 
your directness. I  think that's a goodplace to start. For me, the achievement gap is a very persistent gap. 
It's persistent in Massachusetts, it is persistent throughout the whole country.  I think when you actually 
get the data, you will see that we have made progress in the many of these areas so I think it's good to 
have the data. The data is good after to come together again and say, do we want to implement some 
accelerated methods to close the achievement gap? I think we can have those conversations. You have 
every right to ask that we close this achievement gap. I think that is a good focus. The only thing I would 
in terms of something I want the City to think about is that the King Open Afterschool Day Proram which 
is only in one school is a great model.  The teachers in that program actually spend an hour and a half or 
so inside the classes of the King Open School, collaborating with teachers. That seems to be a model that 
is very effective and strategic in doing the work that we need to do as a partnership. I would ask the City 
Council to think about ways of expanding that on the City end to to some of our other schools. That 
would be something that would be worthwhile to consider. I haven't examined it fully myself, but I think 
it's a good place to start. So maybe we can have that conversation as well. Thank you, Madam Mayor. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 22 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  1:55:33   
Thank you, Member Fantini. Member Green, would you like to say anything? Okay. Member  Kanner? 
 
Member Kanner  1:55:46   
I would like to thank the City Council for coming here in this discussion and in this context.  I did feel it 
was acceptable and made sense that coming here you would point out the flaws in this system and what 
the current system is doing wrong and I accept that. But this is something that we're going to work 
together on. This is something that we all have power to change in our own different ways. Speaking 
about specific things to change. About the mental health and trauma supports at the school, recently I was 
talking to my friends, I was just talking to a lot of students and I was kind of baffled at how little I knew 
and how little my friends and my peers knew about really just what's available to us in terms of mental 
health services. Then I went and I talked to the mental health services, I talked to the people on the Teen 
Health Center, and I reached out to a social worker in the learning community haven't heard back yet. I 
reached out to them and I found out there's a lot of real red tape around actually getting mental health 
help. You need to really to have like any real professional help you need to get your parents involved. 
You need to get written consent and you need to go through this whole process where everyone really 
gets involved and gets all into what the specific students problems are. I know that's something a lot of 
students feel really uncomfortable about. So I think a big part of that is first making sure students know 
what's available to them. We're going to try and work on that. Also making sure that we can make this 
process as accessible to students as possible. Mental health and trauma services affect all students and are 
something that is really beneficial for everyone in the community. Then just about increasing educational 
outcomes for all students, of course, that starts at the youngest, with universal Pre K. That's been 
discussed a lot tonight. There's definitely a lot of different ways this can happen. I will confess, I don't 
know too much about the different ways that universal Pre K has tried to be implemented in the past or 
the ways it is worked or it is not working. But it's definitely something that would be extremely beneficial 
to the community. And then also going through middle school, it is really our middle school communities 
that need to be engaged and connected and not apathetic to our students. That really means it doesn't it 
can be outside of the classroom, it can be an after school programs, it can be with tutoring, one on one 
help with students is extremely beneficial, just making sure they feel connected with their teachers and 
with their educational support. So then in high school, we've recently started tracking, we have that like 
base level of class, and really just making sure that students feel engaged in that there's good project 
based engagement learning in those classes. When there are classes with high levels of students leaving 
with high levels of like absenteeism in that class, it's as much of the teachers fault as the students. When 
we're looking at those classes, if we see a class with high levels of absenteeism, and we see a teacher that 
may not be connecting with our students, we need to do something there. We can't just look at it and say, 
Oh, well, we'll put it in a performance report. And we'll look and see if it happens over a few years. If it's 
going on, if there's a class that has a high pattern of absenteeism, we need to do something and change 
that. I was actually really surprised to see something about increasing dual enrollment. It's a really great 
idea because dual enrollment taking classes at Harvard is an amazing resource that is available to students 
at CRLS. AIt is unknown to a lot of students. It kind of exists behind a wall. To break down that wall, you 
need to know what's behind the wall. We need to make sure students know that that's available to them 
that they can take classes at Harvard and at the Extension School for free. Also, creating a pipeline to 
those kind of classes where if they pursue a certain courseload if they pursue like a certain set of classes, 
then they will be able to take Dual Enrollment classes that would also be very beneficial. It is really an 
amazing resource. It would really promote studentship to just let people know what is available to them 
and accessible if they choose to try and get to that. Thank you for now. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  2:00:18   
Thank you, member Rachel Weinstein followed Member Rojas. 
 
Member Rachel Weinstein  2:00:21   

City of Cambridge 

Page 23 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

I really appreciate your comments Member Kanner. I have a few reflections and then three questions and 
first, like like others, I want to just appreciate the City Council and City Manager and Budget Director 
and Assistant City Manager for coming up for this really critical conversation. As you know, our budget 
is a statement of our values and it's a moral document. And so this is critical. And speaking to a couple of 
the barriers that Khari and Tessa laid out and the Building Equity Bridges, particularly barrier six the 
power and decision making and it isn't equitably distributed and barriers three and four around youth and 
educators of color not being centered in the budget process. I'm very interested in how the budget process 
itself can continue to evolve. Like I think we've made some initial first steps thanks to the Co-Chairs, 
Vice Vice Chair Bowman and Member Fantini for the community forums, but then now that we've had 
that initial input, I'm really eager to see who is consulted in taking these broad ideas and translating them 
into plans. So what that means in some ways. If we look at the actions that are in progress, like I'm really 
excited to see the incident response is underway. That staff training, so the mandatory stuff training. 
Whose participating and what happens to support the implementation. We know training alone is not 
enough, right? So what comes after that? Who's doing the coaching? Who's providing us that peer 
feedback? Is it supervisors feedback? What does that look like in this office of equity in particular? I will 
just flag because I share the frustration about not having numbers yet. That we need more than a chief 
equity officer, right? We need a team and the Office of Equity. So if we're talking about a handful of 
people, what does it look like? Who's crafting that? What those roles are? How are all of the stakeholders 
who've been part of BEB who the CEA, the administrators, the school, you know, principals, families 
want to make sure that we're not rushing these solutions, like we know we have some great ideas but be 
really thoughtful about it, so that we're not in the same place in a few years. So I'm one question is, which 
which of these stakeholders are part of developing Office of Equity following up to mandatory training, 
and then related to the not rushing it like on the one hand, I've have this shared sense of urgency around 
we have these young people in front of us now we have them for 13 years. And that's it right. We don't 
have a chance to make it right after that. But we also have to do it thoughtfully. In terms of the budget 
process, a question for the City Manager, and for the Chief Financial Officer, as well as the 
Superintendent is, how can we set aside the needed resources to then have an Office of Equity come 
school year 2021, but not spell out by March 8, or whatever it is March 12, precisely what those positions 
are, so that we have the time to be thoughtful in community about what does this office look like? What is 
the process going to look like? So I guess what I'm asking is how do we balance securing the resources, 
and then continuing to get input and feedback and not just looking at what others might not very much 
appreciate that you said you're looking at what other districts do for us offices of equity, but what in this 
particular context is going to work with Cambridge, Cambridge public schools history, the continent, the 
local context. Similarly, for universal Pre K, I think many of us have said, this is probably the best thing 
we can do to close gaps. How can we make sure that we set those resources aside, turn to Ms. McDonald 
and Ms. Semonoff who have been championing this work, and I'm so grateful for everything they've done 
and then make sure that as they are getting ready to say, here's what we think works, folks, we have those 
resources ready to go. So that's so my questions are really about, about process and the follow up, right. 
So we've had these initial really good input sessions. How do we have, including for us, a less formal 
conversation, so maybe Mayor Siddiqui, something to put in terms of planning this follow up 
conversation is, is there a way to do it in a less formal way where we each take a turn, maybe we're in 
small groups, maybe we even turned to the folks who have facilitated non traditional meetings to think 
about what are the strategies for deeper engagement rather than one person talking at a time and not 
getting to respond to others. I will leave it there for now. I really appreciate this opportunity and that 
everyone is so passionate and committed. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  2:05:22   
Thank you Member Rachel, Member Rojas. 
 
Member Rojas  2:05:24   

City of Cambridge 

Page 24 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

Thank you, Mayor. And thank you to the city for being here. And thank you for the City Council for 
being here and for all the public as well. So first, I just want to acknowledge the tension that was here in 
the room and and and I appreciate it, because it's real. That tension that you feel at the City Council, you 
only have one goal on the vote.  As Vice Chairman said there's a lot of other ways that we could 
collaborating. I can see both sides of you having that there's one chance to voice your attention versus 
more the longer term conversation that we should be having as far as how we collaborate. I took notes, a 
lot of notes about all the things you brought up. I hope that when we present a budget, we can point out in 
the budget, how we're addressing those concerns that you brought up. Thank you for bringing this up. 
And I just have two questions for the city. City Manager, thank you very much for your presentation and 
on the numbers. So I just got a question. You've talked about all the increases that the city has done for 
the school budget, which we greatly appreciate. As some of the people have said, maybe we need to focus 
more about not so much the increases but just how we're spending the money. Can you give us a taste of 
how the percentage in city budget increases compared to the increases in other areas in the city budget? 
The second has to do with the state. It was interesting to see that for this year. The budgeting includes an 
increase in state aid. I know that in the past the budget always assumes that state aid stays flat and when 
the state is higher than that, that's just extra money that's in the budget that sort of gets relocated, etc. In 
this case, if we were assuming an increase in state aid, what would happen if the state didn't get to that 
increase? Would the city be willing to match any shortfall? 
 
Louis DePasquale, City Manager  2:07:18   
I'll be happy to try to answer them. Let's start with state aid. State aid is a very confusing formula in terms 
how the city treats the school because Cambridge, probably unlike any other city, takes the additional 
assistance, which is state aid goes to the cityies not to the school and gives a share of it to the school, it's 
been that way forever. So rather than individually on an annual basis, adjusting the school items, it's 
adjusted after the budget, but the numbers are built into the taxes. So if it went up, we've absorbed it one 
way if it goes down, we would absorb it the other way. This is very confusing, but I want to make this 
very clear.  School has never been punished since we've put this formula in place where state aid was 
increased at the expense of the School Department. I want to assure people of that.  It is a confusing 
formula. Also, when state aid has gone down, the city has never gone back again and looked at it the other 
way as well. It's just a formula that works on the state aid. However, due to some of the concerns that 
were addressed this year, for us, it's a neutral way of financing. So we put it in because there was some 
confusion around it. But in terms of state aid, the school always gets their share of specific state aid and 
gets over and above that, on the city side, and we usually use that balance as a balancing act till the 
following year comes out to make it happen. So if there was an issue with state aid that's on us. We've 
already recommended the number we certainly would not go back for a recision. But that's one of the 
reasons why the formula we put in place was more protective in the sense that it waits till the numbers of 
final. What happens with the state often is by the time the process starts and the time to process says 
you've had four different numbers. So rather than us trying to pick one in the middle of that process, 
we've said, take the previous year and then adjust it the following year. I understand that that can be 
confusing. That's why we moved the money up front. In terms of the overall budget, and we have all the 
numbers, I think as the city budget has grown some years the city's budget has grown faster, some years 
the school has grown faster. But I think what we didn't talk about tonight is there's a lot of city expenses 
that also help to go support the school. I've never looked at this as an us versus them.  We have all those 
numbers but to me, the school is a city department. They're part of us. We've addressed the needs by 
trying to work with the Superintendent. I've gone through a lot of school budgets, as Budget Director, 
Finance Director and City Manager, and we've never really said that I can remember, you can do this 
because this is what the city is doing. We've said your a department like every department, tell us what 
you need but you are the largest tax supported department and I will try to balance that. So I would say 
safely that I believe from a City Manager's point of view, the school has been treated incredibly faily will 
continue to be treated failry.  The City Council has made it clear that the school and the education of this 
system is incredibly important. If the City Manager did not recognize that and didn't work closely with 

City of Cambridge 

Page 25 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

the Superintendent and the Mayor, there would have been a lot more budget issues that we would have 
heard of in 35 years that I've been involved in. In 35 years, I think we had one year where there was some 
disagreement between the school and the city that quickly got worked out. It really has been a team 
approach. There are different things that are involved. As population goes up in the school, that's another 
factor in determining the budget. As we need different resources in different areas, that's another factor. 
Should we take the debt service that we're putting to all these schools and say, well, because the school's 
doing that you impact the operating budget? Well, that would be crazy. So these are little things that as a 
city, we avoid where other cities can't. One of the reasons for that is fortunately, we are the strongest 
financially sound city in the Commonwealth, maybe in the United States, to be very honest. that gives us 
opportunities to say, no, we're not doing these, we need to take a look at what the needs are,  address 
when the population is moving up, address when they're looking for key incentives and make sure that 
budget is fair. We will continue to do that. It really is a team effort. If you look at the numbers and  
putting it all together, they're relatively close in terms of the growth, some years it's on the city side, some 
years it's on the schoo. Again, we've never tried to look at it that way. It's been more of what are the 
needs. As you balance those needs, it is a driving factor because in the tax part, it's a such a large numbe 
that obviouslyl, if the taxes went way up, it would have tremendous impact on all tax bills. One thing that 
I will continue to say that I think is important. I believe no city in the Commonwealth provides the 
services we do. I can tell you no city in the Commonwealth spends $500 million dollars on three schools. 
We've been able to do this without one issue around people complaining about taxes. We've been able to 
manage our taxes. When taxes go crazy, if they ever do, then it will change the story of how we do things. 
It's why are you doing that? Why are you not doing this? This isn't right. The ability to do all we can do 
yet let the residents not feel like it's coming out of their pocket in tremendously high number is really one 
of the key successes in making this work so that we don't have Well, if the city's up 3%, the schools got to 
be up 3% or We don't have children in school so why is that going up that much? or We don't use that city 
service so why is that going up? So how we look at that is strictly on an individual basis. As needs come 
up, we support them.  
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  2:13:20   
I think you have given a good overview. Mr. Rojas, what I would recommend is that you have a one on 
one discussion with the City Manager. Member Green followed by Member Wilson and Member 
Weinstein and then we will close. 
 
Member Green  2:13:44   
There are a lot of thoughts going in my mind right now. So it was hard for me to synthesize everything at 
once. But there are two things I actually wanted to touch on. hearing what member Kanner was talking 
about. Member Bowman said this earlier about how there's so many resources in this district. We might 
not need more money but to more evaluate the  resources we have. And I think what Hirsch was saying 
about the mental health resources at the high school and dual enrollment with Harvard, and BAM, and 
other programs like that. There's so many things. A lot of students don't know about them. My experience 
with dual enrollment, it's been predominantly male students, predominantly white students who are taking 
advantage of that. In regards to mental health, I think very few students know about the resources at the 
high school about the social workers. I didn't know about it. I found it very difficult when I was myself 
looking for mental health resources in the city. And so I think that for students who don't have family 
support, who are encouraging them to look for it, it would be even harder. Another point - as we were 
looking through this presentation, I think like half a dozen times, it talked about youth voices being 
centered and then going off the other recommendations like reviewing curriculum. I think a great way to 
center youth voices would be right there. I think that the city could spend tons of money reviewing the 
total curriculum. But I think if you asked a handful of students, what areas of your curriculum do you 
think could use more representation? I think you'd get amazing answers right from the students in our 
district. I don't think you need a whole team to pour money into looking for that when you have students 
who could give you those answers right away. For student groups, so we were talking about creation and 

City of Cambridge 

Page 26 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

ongoing investment in youth councils from predominantly marginalized communities, I think that the 
existing groups in our communities aren't really feeling the support or investment at all. Before we create 
new groups, I think we should evaluate how you're supporting the current ones and how they are feeling 
at this moment in time. Furthermore, there was another point on the BEB about looking at discipline 
procedures and I think that's another thing where students have repeatedly shown their opinions on it. If 
you If you want to center youth more in this process, then you could engage with them or support them on 
the issues that they're tackling in regards to discipline, and particularly the detention policy at the high 
school has been talked about a lot in student government and BSU as well. There are a lot of easy ways 
that are right within reach of this committee in regards to centering youth voices.  I don't really think 
that's something that you can't achieve. I think that if you're dedicated to addressing a lot of these things, 
then that's a pretty important part. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  2:16:32   
Thank you Member Green. You've already spoken Member Kanner so I'm going to go to Member 
Weinstein and then Member Wilson. 
 
Member Weinstein  2:16:43   
Thank you. I will start very briefly by again thanking the City Manager and his team, Khari Milner and 
Tessa Bridge and everybody who's been involved with Building Equity Bridges. I've appreciated having 
multiple opportunities to see presentations. It just gets better every time, and I able to focus in on different 
aspects each time, and to all the City Councillors for being here engaging in this so deeply. What I really 
hope is that this is part of a continued move in the further direction of coordinating efforts with with the 
city, with this School Committee and members and City Councillors in particular. In general, I think it's 
been touched on by a number of people, so that we're really taking care of our children, birth through post 
grad. At every step of the way, there's roles for the School Department and for the city. I don't think we'll 
really be as successful as we can be without really coordinating that so that we really are focused on the 
same goals and making sure that nobody falls through the cracks. There's this model what's been been 
called success plans for all and I think as a Councillor McGovern and Councillor Nolan and others have 
mentioned, we're all aware we are a small enough city to be able to really truly know every every child 
and nobody, nobody should fall through the cracks. It may be that at school we're identifying a need, like 
food, that the school actually in that case can help meet. That also needs to be met met by another city 
service or maybe there's an after school piece or anyway, that kind of coordination I don't think or that 
kind of meeting that need I don't think can happen without that coordination. That's what i what i want to 
see us do so that every child in this city has their needs met. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  2:18:45   
Thank you, Member Wilson. 
 
Member Wilson  2:18:47   
Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you to the City Manager and your team as well as the City 
Councillors for being here and to my colleagues for sharing. I really appreciated all the feedback that you 
all had given and as well as, again, just really thinking about how can we continue to have robust 
conversations, which I don't think that this was but more like how do we actually have that and have 
healthy conversations as we are trying to push the city forward in a great way and to becoming more of an 
anti racist district, not just on a School Committee level, but as a city as a whole. I appreciate that and 
look forward to those opportunities. Just a couple of comments that I have. I took down a lot of notes as a 
kid who grew up in this city had my whole K to 12 be in Cambridge. I really appreciate it. Councillor 
Simmons sentiments around the history and kind of repeating a lot of this and we being here several times 
over and over. I agree and I personally have experienced, and so it's really important for me to make sure 
that we are thinking intentionally about how we are moving our city forward, how we are addressing the 
needs of our kids. I have been explicitly direct with saying we need to make sure that there are plans in 

City of Cambridge 

Page 27 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

place for any young person who was failing. Third grade is not literate by third grade. We need to make 
sure that there are intentional factors being put in for those young people to support them. When we think 
about especially in our last year, which has been an ongoing issue, but in our last year has been even more 
relevant is around the the challenges around equity and the race, the racism that our young people have 
been experiencing in our schools, and really looking for the work of the BEB, and how do we move 
forward and how do we support it? I think the Office of Equity is a great place for us to be and really 
thinking about, again, being intentional of what does that look like? How do we lay out the framework so 
we're not just trying to drop a little nugget out there to say, let's give this a try without really fully having 
a plan. I want us to be really clear on what our plans are looking like in order to really make change in the 
city. I really feel like I can go on and on the mental health as a social worker thinking about our young 
people, I am in this building every single day. I don't want to get emotional but it's a serious thing. When 
we're thinking about mental health and trauma and what our young people are experiencing day in and 
day out. If you don't walk this hall, please, you cannot really speak to what our young people need in 
order to be successful in this city. When we are failing, when we are graduating our young people, and 
then they come back to the city a year later, two years later, and they are nowhere. It's shameful and it's 
our fault. I will say it's our fault. We really need to do more and we need to be intentional from junior 
kindergarten how we are setting our kids up for success. Looking at the individual success plans, and how 
we're going to really implement that and be successful with that implementation. So again, I think I can 
go on but I really just want to stop there. It's been a long night. We have a lot of work to do my friends, 
and we really need to roll up our sleeves and do it, everyone. Again, I just want to touch on that- together, 
we are better. We need to stop operating in our own silos because that's not how we're going to move this 
city forward in a cohesive and more productive way. We have to work as a community. So thank you. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  2:22:33   
Thank you remember Wilson, I'll speak after the Superintendent and then we'll wrap up. 
 
Superintendent Salim  2:22:45   
Thank you Mayor Siddiqu. I appreciate the conversation and the challenge of this format and and the 
limitations of having a dialogue and certainly there were certain choices that we had to make in terms of 
information that was shared. Certainly here the strong interest in grounding the conversations in outcomes 
data. I will say that one of the things I  am proud of is the fact that we are trying to be much more open 
and public around what our challenges are. That can be part of our dialogue. And so not just the data 
dashboard online. We have an annual outcomes report, which we'll share with with Councillors that the 
committee members are familiar with, and that we do want to have data and evidence be part of the 
conversation. That is where the work of the Building Equity Bridges team has also engaged in with with 
the sense of making teams of looking at some of those data. We certainly can share some of that in 
advance of what that next convening might be. The urgency that everyone has shared around the table is 
one that I know that all the School Committee Members hold and that administration and leadership and 
our district hold and that how do we make sure that we're identifying what are those priorities that we're 
investing in that we think are going to really produce the outcomes that we want because to do everything 
all at once, is means that we're not doing everything effectively well, and that the idea around having a 
district plan and the idea around identifying what the levers are is to really look at where we're going 
deep. Because whatever level of the organization, whether you're talking about a classroom teacher, a 
professional school base administrator, a central administrator, if we're talking about 25 different things 
that we're not really appreciably changing the experiences for our students and our families and that is in 
many ways what the work is to identify clearly what is our big bets? What is how are we looking at 
changing these outcomes? And what are the steps along the way? We we get some of these measures only 
on an annual basis so what are the other ways that we're also measuring progress over the course of the 
year. So definitely want to just share that both our urgency and also making sure that we are in dialogue 
around what we are identifying as those outcomes for our students in CPS. We shared a number of 
questions at different altitudes and so we will also be spending time and looking at ways of both in the 

City of Cambridge 

Page 28 

  

Minutes 

City Council 

February 11, 2020 

follow up discussion but also if there are other ways of also sharing more information in advance that we 
can do that as well for free things that can be done in that mode. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  2:26:03   
Thank you, Superintendent. I want to thank everyone for coming today. I had viewed the minutes from 
the last few roundtables and one thing that came up was, for me, I didn't want this conversation from the 
City Council to happen in May. I think it's important that the School Committee or administration, hear 
from you, and also then engage with the School Committee, and I think all of us have a better idea. This is 
the first step. It's February 12. We're working backwards. I'm committed to having those conversations, 
getting those questions answered, and having a back and forth dialogue. We are two bodies, but it is one 
goal and that is the students here. I'd like to thank the BEB team for coming as well. I think reflecting on 
this work that was funded by a grant that we apply for and got and now we have an opportunity to think 
about these barriers and what we do. I think it is important that  we think about how are we supposed to 
fund this, this mandate, if this is something we are interested in, or some some things that are part of the 
commitments that we're already doing. So I'm open to those conversations and seeing how we elevate 
some of this work, because I haven't gone through it and read it and and seeing how, what's come out of 
it, I think it is, it's different. And it is a different time. And I think we are motivated in a different way as 
well. And so, and I hear those frustrations too. So I want to acknowledge that and it's  a very complex 
issue we're dealing with and more personally, I failed the MCAS.  I didn't pass them cast in 10th grade. I 
failed the math math completely. I remember that moment. I failed and my life could have gone this way- 
it went this way. And there's a lot of reasons for that. And to Councillor Toomey's point, there are barriers 
that are getting in the way of low income students of color every day. We have to every day work hard 
and figure that out. o I'm committed to that. I know the School Committee is committed that the City 
Council is committed that so this partnership has to continue. This is the first  meeting and I look forward 
to convening more and having ongoing partnerships. Next time I'll provide lunch, maybe have a lunch 
meeting, and have a have a conversation then but we will work diligently on setting up these meetings 
and getting the information that you requested and go from there. So thank you for coming. On a motion 
from Councillor McGovern to adjourn.  Goodnight.   
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 29 

  

