GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS, RULES & CLAIMS 
COMMITTEE 
 

COMMITTEE MEETING 

~ MINUTES ~ 

  Wednesday, February 19, 2020 

10:00 AM 

Sullivan Chamber 

  Call to Order 

Attendee Name 
E. Denise Simmons 

Quinton Zondervan 

Timothy J. Toomey 

Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler 

Marc C. McGovern 

 

Non-voting members present 
Mayor Siddiqui  
Councillor Carlone  
Councillor Nolan 
 

Present 

Arrived 

 
 
 
 
 

Absent 

 
 
 
 
Excused 

Late 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Government Operations Committee will meet to discuss extending the contract of City 
Manager Louis A. DePasquale beyond January 2021. 

Meeting called to order at 10:02 AM. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  2:03   
Good morning. The hour of the meeting having come, I will call this meeting to order. I am Denise Simmons, Chair 
of  the  Government  Operations  and  Claims  committee.  Here  present  with  us  today  are  Councillors  Zondervan, 
Sobrinho-Wheeler. We have with us Nancy Glowa from the Law Department. Also in attendance is Mayor Siddiqui, 
Councillor  Toomey,  Neal  Alpert  from  my  staff.  I  thought  I  saw  somewhere  Patty  Nolan,  has  she  left  us?  Oh, 
Councillor Nolan, and of course, our clerk, Anthony Wilson. I'll begin by going over - and I do want to welcome 
Councillor Carlone. Members of the Government Operations Committee are Councillor McGovern, Councillor... I 
can't  read  my  own  writing...    Toomey,  Zondervan,  myself  and  McGovern  and  Councillor  Sobrinho-Wheeler. 
Councillor McGovern is away, this happens to be school vacation week and so he's away with his family, so please 
let the record show that he is an excused absence.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  3:13   
I want to thank everyone for coming to this morning's meeting of the Government Operations, Rules, and Claims 
Committee. The call is as follows: "the Government Operations Committee will discuss  extending the contract of 
the City Manager, Louie A. DePasquale's contact beyond January 2021." On February 3, 2020, as per his contract, 
Mr.  DePasquale  formally notified  the  City  Council  in  writing  of  his  wishes  to  enter  into  discussion  to  extend his 
contract as City Manager. Just for people's information, he first assumed this role in November 2016. And after a 
search  process  that  was  led  by  an  outside  consultant  that  saw  the  City  Council  review  the  candidates  in  the  City 
Council at that time. There was a very strong pool of candidates and the City chose to appoint Mr. DePasquale as 
our city manager.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  4:09   
I can only speak from my own personal experience by saying I've enjoyed a productive working relationship with 
Mr.  DePasquale  over  the  past  few  years,  working  to  making  his  office  open,  accessible,  and  collaborative.  Mr. 
DePasquale has demonstrated a willingness to put his own stamp on the office, to think creatively and to strive to do 

City of Cambridge 

Page 1 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 19, 2020 

what he thinks is in the best interest of the city. And in those incidents where his office has been met with criticism, 
he  has  shown  a  willingness  to  listen  and  the  desire  to  find  common  ground.  In  those  instances  where  Mr. 
DePasquale and I have not always seen eye to eye, I've appreciated his willingness to work with me to see if we can 
make an adequate compromise.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  4:51   
Certainly,  the  past  few  years  have  not  been  without  challenges  to  the  city,  to  the  city  manager,  and  to  the  city 
council, but I believe we're in a  solid position to start discussing how we  will address  tomorrow's challenges and 
opportunities together. So, the city manager having met  the requirement of notifying the city council in writing of 
his intention to extend his contract, the city manager's request is now before the Government Operations committee. 
You each have a copy of the city manager's letter dated January 30, 2020 in front of you. In the coming weeks, this 
committee will request that Mr. DePasquale provide the details of what he envisions his contract extension to look 
like. Starting with today's hearing, I would also ask the members of the Government Operations committee to start 
discussing what we think of this extension and what Mr. DePasquale's contract would look like. I also just want to 
remind everyone -- am I speaking loud enough for everybody? Okay.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  5:48   
I will also like to remind everyone here that the role of the Government Operations committee in this process is to 
establish the parameters of the discussion for the city manager's contract extension. This committee does not vote on 
the  contract.  in  terms  of  finality,  or  make  the  ultimate  decision  in  the  matter.  That  has  to  be  voted  by  the  full 
Council. We merely are charged with determining what the details of the contract extension would look like. And 
then we would send that to the full Council for the Council to vote up or down. In a moment, I'm going to open the 
floor  for  discussion.  That  will  then  be  followed  by  Public Comment.  And  so  I believe  there's  a  sign  up  sheet  for 
people that want to speak on the record. And that time allotment for speaking on the record is three minutes. We 
would ask that you do not engage in personalities, direct all your comments to the Chair, and through the Chair you 
speak to the entire body. At that time, after Public Comment, we'll go back to the committee - we do have to take at 
least one vote this morning, and that is to just to accept the letter that is in front of you. Because what happened at 
the City Council meeting, when it came through the portal of Communications, it was forwarded to this committee. 
This  committee  now  has  to  accept  it.  That  would  be  the  only  vote  that  we  will  probably  take  today.  With  that  I 
would like to open the floor for discussion. Councillor Zondervan, would you like to begin? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  7:14   
Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you for those opening remarks. I certainly have also found Mr. DePasquale to be a 
pleasure  to  work  with.  And  I  am  interested  in  how  this  process  moves  forward.  And,  in  particular,  there  are  two 
questions on my mind. One is how do we initiate a formal evaluation of his performance? And second, how do we 
initiate a search for city manager, and I believe both of those things could and should happen, regardless of whether 
we ultimately decide to extend the city manager's current contract. I think we should have a transparent process and 
we should have a formal evaluation of his accomplishments, and areas that we would like to see improvement. And I 
also think that given the likelihood that he will, if we extend this contract, only serve for two or three more years, 
that we should have a further discussion about the search process for finding the next city manager to lead our city. 
Thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  8:48   
Thank you. Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler.  
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler  8:50   
Thank you, Madam Chair. When I think about the city manager's contract, I think of it in two parts. The first part -  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  8:57   
Councillor  Sobrinho-Wheeler,  may  I  ask  if  you'd  speak  just  a  little  bit  slower,  and  more  deliberately,  because 
people,  I  can  see  the  look  on  their  face.  A  little  slower  and  louder.  So  as  someone  said,  "would  you  ask  the 
committee to articulate better?" Not to say that you should, but I'm going to try and, I would ask everyone, just for 
the  record.  We're  using  a  different  software.  And  that  software,  if  we  don't  articulate  well,  doesn't  capture  what 
we've said well. So we're going to try to practice doing that. Very good. Thank you, you have the floor. 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler  9:29   

City of Cambridge 

Page 2 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 19, 2020 

Thank you, Madam Chair. When I think  about the  city manager's contract,  I think about it in two parts. The first 
being  sort  of  the  executive  role  in  government  -  how  responsive  is  he  to  the  council,  how  well  is  he  in  carrying 
things  out?  And  on  those  parts,  I  think  he  has  been  quite  responsive.  Great  to  work  with.  The  much  larger  part 
though, is carrying out the policy goals of the Council. I was looking at the City Council goals. Before this meeting, 
Goal  One  -increase  access  to  affordable  housing  for  all  income  groups;  Goal  Six,  make  it  easy  to  move  safely 
through the city, especially by sustainable modes of transportation, pedestrian access bike access, so what I think of 
on things like that; Goal Eight,  ensure  that Cambridge remains an innovation hub that integrates businesses of all 
sizes into a thriving ecosystem, and things like that -  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  10:21   
I lost you at Goal Six, I'm sorry. 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler  10:24   
Sure.  Goal  Six  -  make  it  easy  to  move  safely  through  the  city,  especially  by  sustainable  modes  of  transportation, 
transportation; Goal Eight - ensure that Cambridge remains an innovation hub that integrates businesses of all sizes 
into a thriving ecosystem. And Goal 10 ensures that these budget allocates resources responsibly and responsively. 
On things like that, I think, municipal broadband and the lack of progress we've made there. So that's I think, the 
much larger part I think of when I think of the city manager's contract. I was also looking at the the city manager's 
contract  that  was  adopted  in  2016,  I  believe,  before  the  meeting,  and  in  Section  2.3:  "the  city  shall  review  and 
evaluate the performance of the city manager at meetings scheduled by the government operations committee." So 
that  was  my  question,  just  if  there  have  been  any  evaluations  since  then.  And  then  if  not,  or  if  so,  even,  I  think 
before we can consider an extension of the city manager's contract, we've really got to conduct an evaluation as the 
council - probably even just beyond this committee - to allow other folks to weigh in, and to decide if that's the route 
we want to go down or if there's another route, we want to go down. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  11:37   
Thank you for your comments. Ms. Nolan, do you have any comments? I realize you are not a voting member, but 
you are present and we'd like to hear from you. 
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan  11:48   
Thank you, Madam Mayor  - or Madam Chair. I'm excited to be here, I realized this is one of the most important 
decisions  we  can  ever  make  as  an  entire  Council.  And  in  my  short  term  here,  and  in  my  long  service  on  School 
Committee, I certainly have seen many of the ways in which the city has moved forward. The questions I have echo 
part  of  what  was  already  said  by  Councilors  Zondervan  and  Sobrinho-Wheeler.  Those  of  you  -  Madam  Chair, 
yourself, who have served on the School Committee - know that there's a very clear process laid out for the review 
of the superintendent, which is what I would love to have us, if we haven't done that in the past already, to build on 
that. Reviews are critically important for good management and good governance. This isn't just about "oh, this is 
where you need to do, this is where you're failing." It really is wow, these are the goals you set up. This is where you 
succeeded. Here's ways in which we can celebrate what it is that you did. I also believe it would be really helpful, if 
we  haven't  done  it  in  the  past,  to  do  a  full  360  review,  which  for  someone  like  the  city  manager  would  include 
people who work in the city, those of us who are his bosses, but also outside elements. I know we did that on School 
Committee  -  reaching  out  to  the  institutional  partners,  to  the  business  community.  So  I  would  love  to  see  that 
process to help all of us understand as we move forward, and to fulfill the terms of the contract, actually have done 
it.  
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan  13:21   
My  questions  related  to  the  letter  include  a  really  clear  focus  on  what  the  specific  plans  are  moving  forward  to 
address these? For instance, as the Council itself, before I got on, has expressed very clearly, a desire to address the 
equity issue of the digital divide, which has been ongoing for more than a decade. I know the school's talked about it 
a lot, in our schools. But the City, it's another issue to really move forward on something I believe the Council has 
already pushed forward, which is to take the next steps to see if municipal broadband - which ends up saving people 
across the city money in the long term - that's an example where what's mentioned as a digital equity study, I'd like 
some more specifics on what's the commitment going forward to the specific ways in which we'll address some of 
the issues that are outlined which the safe streets, the biking, the affordable housing. And another comment: as we 
move forward on the Tobin Vassal Lane project, as the Council also recognizes that we're now working to see if we 
can make that project even more beneficial to the city by working to acquire the armory, it really needs a full court 

City of Cambridge 

Page 3 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 19, 2020 

press to the state to understand if it's even possible, because that would give us the possibility of expanding not only 
a little bit of open space, but an Early Education Center, which I know this council has gone on record for wanting 
for a decade. I don't like that Somerville beat us to it 15 years ago with the Capuano Center, and also put affordable 
housing in an area of the city that needs it. So that frames for me the ways that I'm approaching this decision that 
we'll be making as we move forward. And I'm glad the process is started now so that we have plenty of time before 
the end of this contract to understand where we're going. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  15:09   
Thank you for your comments. Councillor Carlone? Please speak loudly for our audience.  
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  15:18   
Oh, I usually don't have a problem with that. Yes, I will. Following on my fellow councillors' comments, I think the 
world of our manager as a person. I have found him extremely responsive and very tight with money, which is his 
background. I think as far as in his letter, he mentions he's going for the rating with the different companies and that 
it would be important to say that what his future is. I mean, he is going to be a manager for at least another year, and 
likely beyond that. And I would simply  say: "Review is in process. We've started the review. And obviously, he's 
number  one."  But  this  is  what  bothers  me,  and  I've  had  these  same  discussions  with  Louie,  and  some  cases  with 
other  councillors.  We  have  City  Council  goals  -  that  was  brought  up  by  Councillor  Sobrinho-Wheeler  -  and  the 
number one is affordable housing. And half a percentage point of the budget goes toward affordable housing. And 
there's no way that our number one priority is being properly funded if it's half of 1%. After that is education and 
employment,  and  I  include  in  that  pre-K,  and  I  realize  Louie's  only  come  on  in  the  last  two  years.  I'm  disgusted 
when I think about the lack of pre-K. And here's the reason why: we cite in the letter that we are the most successful 
financially based (and I've talked to Louie about this) city in the state. I actually think we might be in the country. 
And the reason is Brookline (which I believe is a AAA), Boston (which I know is a AAA), and Somerville use 99-
plus percent of what they're allowed to tax. And I know taxes are a dirty word. We use 68% of our taxes that we're 
allowed to tax. So "Dennis, what are you talking about? You're going to just make everything crazy." Our taxes are 
three quarters of Boston. They're 50% of the suburbs, if not a third of the suburbs; our taxes are very low. So what 
does this mean? 20 million more in the budget is $140 more per average house. $103 a week will gain us 20 million 
more, and  we  can't even get there. I know, Madam Chair, you proposed 20 million more for affordable housing  - 
either a year ago or two years ago, I don't recall now - the whole Council agreed. It didn't go up.  
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  18:42   
When I discovered this information about how much we tax versus other cities, we got it up $5 million. Councillor 
Zondervan and I went in to talk to him. Who knows if we're going be wealthy 10 years from now? When I moved 
here in the early 70s, Cambridge was in terrible shape. Things can change. And if you don't use the funds that are 
available, we've left a billion dollars on the table. I'm not saying we should use even a third of that, but we've left it 
on  the  table  over  the  last  eight  years.  And  if  you  got  it  in  your  pocket,  and  there  were  issues,  transportation, 
affordable housing, environmental, pre-K, what are we  waiting for? And that's the part that disturbs me. And I've 
told Louie this. As a person, I can honestly say I love the guy. As a manager, he's open to us anytime. I brought up a 
couple of issues that are difficult and we've talked about them, and he's tried to resolve them. I give him enormous 
credit for that. But when it comes to budgets, and city goals, we're not doing it. And that's the part that disturbs me. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  20:11   
I suspect we will want him, including me, to be manager. But that part's got to change, as far as I'm concerned. What 
are we doing here? The goals are supposed to be based on the Council's - the budget's supposed to be based on the 
Council's goals. It's not. Thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  20:32   
Thank you, Councillor Carlone. Councillor Toomey? 
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey  20:34   
Thank you, Madam Chair. I guess we all have different perspectives on what Council goals have been achieved and 
not  achieved  and  how  even  Council  has  not  achieved  their  goals  of  affordable  housing.  So  you're  talking  about 
affordable housing, and yet voted against the Housing Overlay, which would have provided thousands of more units 
of  affordable  housing  there.  So  yes,  we  all  have  different  perspectives  on  how  this  is  laid  out.  We  are,  and 
everybody here admits, we're the envy of the country with the services we  are providing to our residents. Are we 

City of Cambridge 

Page 4 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 19, 2020 

perfect? Absolutely not. Is there more that we can do? Absolutely. But there is a point that I've seen in the past. And 
it happened probably about 10 years ago when there was all of a sudden a sharp increase in West Cambridge taxes. 
And there was - talk about a revolution coming out of that neighborhood about increasing the taxes then. So it's a 
balance. And I think the manager has done an admirable job, with the Council and the administration, to have that 
balance and providing the great services, but at the same time, maintaining the financial stability of the city. And I'm 
looking  forward  to  more  discussion  on  the  pre-K.  I  think  that's  extremely  important.  But  at  the  same  time  I'm 
looking at that, I want to make sure that when we do with the pre-k that it's income based, because what I'm afraid of 
is wealthy families from outside the city are going to say "Wait a minute, I don't have to be paying $30,000 a year in 
childcare, I can send my kids free to the public schools." So they're going to force out low and working class tenants 
in the city. So that's a discussion I think that has to be pursued.  
 
Councillor Timothy Toomey  22:15   
So there's an evaluation I think is important that we start that as soon as  possible. To Councillor Zondervan's point 
about simultaneously having a search for new city manager while we're discussing whether we're going to extend 
the city manager's contract, makes absolutely no sense to me at all. I don't know who would apply to a position that's 
not  vacant.  Either  we  renew  it  or  we  don't  renew  it  and  then  you  start  a  search  process.  But  to  do  two 
simultaneously, I think just sends a terrible signal to prospective candidates that might want to come to the city, but 
would  be  saying  "Why  would  I  apply  if  there's  a  possibility  that  the  current  manager's  contract  is  going  to  be 
extended?" A lot of people don't want to put their names out there to jeopardize their current positions and let their 
current employer know that they're going to apply for the position. So I think it would be best to do an evaluation, as 
always  very  transparent,  that  we  do  in  this  council.  And  with  public  process,  public  input.  And  then  the  council, 
that's  our  decision,  that's  among  the  most  important  decisions  that  the  residents  elect  us  to  do.  And  I  think  that 
should be the process. I think, today, the manager has submitted his intentions to seek an extension. I think it would 
be appropriate for the Chair of the Government Operations Committee to meet with the City Manager to see what 
the parameters are of what he possibly is looking for the extension or renewal. And then come back to the committee 
and  then  we  can  come  up  with  a  process  to  conduct  an  evaluation  and  back  and  forth  between  the  public,  the 
Council,  and  the  City  Manager.  But  this  is  our  most  important  decision.  And  when  you  look  at  these 
accomplishments - and I know Councillor Nolan mentioned the Tobin - there's no other community in the state that's 
building  three  brand  new  schools  for  our  kids  for  the  greatest  education  possible.  There's  still  inequities  in  the 
system,  there's  no  question  about  that.  And  the  new  mayor  and  the new  school  committee  are  really  delving  into 
that. But at least in my strong opinion, you cannot spend every single penny that  we have. I think that would just 
jeopardize a lot. And I actually just asked Mr. Kale for a list of the highest residential people who pay in taxes, and I 
would venture to say that some people are paying upwards of 100 grand on residential taxes. So you're hitting the 
middle  class  when  you  raise  the  taxes.  So  it's  a  delicate  balance  and  I  think  the  Manager  and  his  staff  and  the 
Council have done an admirable job of trying to keep diversity in the city. So a lot of challenges facing us. And I am 
looking forward to the evaluation process and listening from the manager, listening from the public, and go forth. 
But I just don't see the the wisdom of conducting a search process for a position that's not vacant. That's my opinion. 
Thank you.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  25:40   
Thank you Councillor Toomey. Before I open the floor to public comment, I want to see if there was anyone  - our 
mayor has not spoken. I want to give the opportunity to see if she would like to speak before I hear from anyone 
else. So if you don't mind demuring - Madam Mayor. 
 
Councillor Sumbul Siddiqui  25:56   
Thank you. I wanted to allow the committee members and others to speak before I did. I think we have a few paths 
forward. I think that per the contract, some kind of evaluation is necessary. And, you know, I think the solicitor's 
office can work with us on that. And you as chair, how does an evaluation get done? What questions are we asking? 
You know, what's the data that we're looking for? Right. And I think this goes back to goals. This goes back to other 
things. And I think we've individually had conversations with the city manager on different things, and I think he'd 
be happy to probably talk about the things, and he's laid out a few things that he's passionate about and some things 
that you know, we have a right to ask about. So I think we can move forward in that process, I think with regard to 
the search, I think we have to - I wasn't involved in that search for the city manager in the past.  
 
Councillor Sumbul Siddiqui  27:09   

City of Cambridge 

Page 5 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 19, 2020 

But I think what comes up about searches in general, is - I think the big question is like: what are we looking for? 
And who do we want? Right? And I think those are meaty questions. And I think it doesn't have to be this formal. 
I'm  not  thinking  of  it  as  a  formal  search  process,  in  particular.  I'm  thinking  that  the  Government  Ops  committee 
would set up parameters around what a future search looks like, and reflect on lessons learned from the past search. 
And think about what a future city manager  - who we want that person to be. So I think that's how I was thinking 
about a search and that doesn't necessarily  - it can happen after a potential extension, if that's the will of the City 
Council. So those are just my general thoughts. I am not a voting member  of this committee. I am eager to follow 
what the community does and support you in whatever way I can.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  28:19   
Thank you. Councillor Zondervan, you have the floor.  
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  28:21   
Thank  you,  Madam  Chair.  I  just  wanted  to  respond  through  you  to  my  colleague,  and  appreciate  the  mayor's 
comments.  I  perhaps  didn't  explain  myself  correctly,  I  was  not  suggesting  that  we  do  a  search  and  renew  the 
manager's contract. I completely agree with my colleague that we should decide to extend the manager's contract or 
not.  And  in  addition  to  that,  if  we  do  extend  the  contract,  then  as  the  mayor  suggests,  we  should  start  having  a 
conversation about what a search would look like. Because that's  - if we do a two year extension, that, you know, 
search takes at least a year. And so that gives us about a year to, to really build up to that and set the parameters and 
have a real conversation about what we're looking for. So I think it is appropriate regardless of whether we renew 
this contract or not to have a conversation about what a search would look like, and how we would structure that and 
when we would initiate it. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  29:28   
Thank you, Councillor. Are there any other people that wanted to make comment before we open public comment? 
Hearing  none,  we  will  now  move  to  Public  Comment.  And  I  just  want  to  remind  folks,  Public  Comment  is  this 
process where anyone that is signed up can speak to any item which is on our agenda, which is just a discussion 
about the idea of this city manager, extending his contract. Each individual should open by giving their name and 
address  for  the  record.  Direct  their  comments  to  the  chair,  please  avoid  personalities,  and  the  amount  of  time 
allocated to each speaker is three minutes. So I will - our able Clerk will be keeping the time. Our first person who 
has signed up to speak is Charles Schmidt, followed by Michael Goodman. 
 
Christopher Schmidt  30:26   
Christopher Schmidt 17 Laurel Street. Thank you very much for your time and for having this meeting. I have been 
active in Cambridge politics for the past several years, having gotten involved in Cambridge politics after hearing 
and seeing the city manager's reticence to move forward with the outcome of the Universal Broadband Task Force. 
Over  the  course  of  2017,  the  city  manager  chose  not  to  respond  to  seven  different  policy  orders.  And  as  I  have 
participated in Cambridge politics over the past two years, what I have found is that the idea that the city manager 
will respond to a policy order seems to be kind of up in the air at any given time. You know, how long it will take, 
what the response will be - I have been continually disappointed by the types of responses, we see, the timeliness of 
those responses, and the city manager's commitment to that outcome. I'm not in the city administration. I'm not on 
the  council. I  have not,  you know,  had  the  opportunity,  like  many of  you have,  to  interact  with  the  city  manager 
directly in the same way. But as a citizen attempting to stay informed of what is going on, how the city is meeting 
our  goals,  and  what  the  city's  plan  is  to  meet  those  goals,  I  feel  the  city  manager  has  done  a  poor  job  of 
communicating those issues back to the public; has done a poor job of meeting the demands of the city council, and 
has done a poor job as has been raised in a couple of different cases, meeting the council's priorities. When we look 
at issues like  equity, one of the council's key goals. I think that the city has not done as well as it could. And, of 
course, as a member of Upgrade Cambridge and municipal broadband being one of the focuses that brought me into 
this  area,  you  know,  no  progress  has  been  made  on  the  issue  of  municipal  broadband  despite  a  unanimous 
recommendation from the task force to move forward, despite a straightforward set of steps to move forward. And I 
have seen relatively little, you know, evaluation of that lack of performance in the city manager's actions over the 
past several years. So I think this was raised several times by members of this group, that evaluation is important as 
I'm doing my own self evaluation at work every six months, I have to tell my bosses how I think I'm doing and I 
haven't seen that type of self evaluation. I would expect that from anyone who I think is working on my behalf, and I 
think the city manager is attempting to work on my behalf. And so I would ask the council to really be looking at 
that  and  in  your  position,  I  think  I  would  have  a  hard  time  supporting  the  city  manager's  for  an  extension  of  his 

City of Cambridge 

Page 6 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 19, 2020 

contract. But if that is the path is going to move forward, I think a much more serious evaluation of how the city 
manager is meeting those goals and how his performance is, versus the city council's request, is important. Thank 
you very much for your time. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  33:16   
Thank you for your testimony. Michael Goodman, followed by Alan Green. 
 
Michael Goodman  33:25   
Hi,  my  name  is  Mike  Goodman.  I  live  at  237  Franklin  Street  apartment  811.  So  I  have  a  prepared  statement.  So 
sorry if I drift around, but I also like, I kind of don't - I'm trying to catch on, but like some of the wonky details, I'm 
sure other people will cover. I just want to raise a couple of points. I just want to think about the people living in this 
city  right  now  who  are  -  they're  struggling  and  suffering  and  think  about  the  material  conditions.  I  know  it  does 
seem like from, what I'm picking up on, we do seem to be doing okay financially and there's so many ways that we 
could improve people's lives. I know, at least one city councilor is new this term who campaigned partially on, you 
know, making some material improvements. And that kind of points me to the second issue I wanted to raise, was 
that I think to a lot of people, maybe not to people in this room here, but I think to a lot of people in general, the way 
our  city  government  works  can  be  confusing. I  know  it  was  confusing  for  me  till  very recently,  even  though  I've 
lived here for like six or seven years, I think a lot of people don't understand just how important the city manager is 
for an unelected position. So, going back to what I said, like  I know we  elected one new person making some  of 
these  ideas  for  better  housing,  transit,  municipal  broadband.  That's  just  one  person.  I'm  hearing  other  people  talk 
about schools. I hope that the council, regardless of whether the city manager gets renewed or we have a new one, I 
hope,  it  seems  to  me  like  the  policies  in  the  past  have  been  a  little  too  restrictive  in  terms  of  like,  making  the 
commitments to make these improvements and I feel like the people of this city would really like that to happen. All 
right. That's all. Thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  35:28   
Thank you for your comments. Our next speaker is Alan Green, followed by Ben Simon. 
 
Alan Green  35:38   
Alan Green, 82 Fifth Street. Madam Chair, earlier a member here mentioned having some sort of criterion or method 
for  determining  whether  or  not  the  city  manager's  contract  should  be  extended.  And  with  that,  also,  the  need  for 
transparency. As I stand here, I don't see that being possible because I don't vote for the city manager. I'm a resident 
here, I have no part of that process. That is all with the City Council. So I would like to see a method where we can 
vote, and we can decide, we determine the criterion. And that's all transparent. Beyond that, I participate sometimes 
on internet forums where people talk about issues in Cambridge, the neighborhood, whatever neighborhood it might 
be. I don't really write too much with that. But there are people who write a lot. And sometimes people  - the things 
that they write - I disagree with almost every time they write something. In one case, one such individual wrote a 
rebuttal of something that somebody else wrote. And that individual, put some maps of how people from Cambridge 
voted in the last election for the City Council. And in spite of what his argument was, I looked at those maps and I 
found them very interesting, because it showed every single candidate that ran - I don't know how many candidates, 
there were like twenty or something - so, what I learned is from the people who were actually voted into the council 
seat, six, around six out of nine, definitely  were voted from specific districts or areas. And so what I would say is 
that we need to change our system of government here. We need to have a mayor who's accountable, who's voted by 
the people. We need to divide up the city councilors salary amongst the councilors and the mayor and have it so that 
the City of Cambridge the people are voting for that mayor, and that's the mayor who's in charge. If it's the default 
that people are voting district by district, we need to make it a district based system. So I'm in essence saying we 
should not extend this contract. Thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  37:42   
Thank you for your testimony. Ben Simon, followed by Richard Crushnick. 
 
Ben Simon  37:49   
Hi, Ben Simon 67 Bishop Allen Dr. I have prepared a statement. In his time as city manager Louis A. DePasquale 
has run the city frugally, like a business, bringing in huge amounts of tax revenue from commercial development 
and keeping spending relatively low. But there is an extremely ugly cost to this system. By constantly driving rents 
higher, all this commercial development is displacing many of our most vulnerable residents and destroying many 

City of Cambridge 

Page 7 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 19, 2020 

vitally important businesses. It seems like every week there are more stores closing, formerly affordable buildings 
being  luxurified,  and  neighbors  gone.  Again,  this  is  not  an  accident.  This  is  a  predictable  trend  caused  by  a  city 
planning  style  funded  by gentrification.  We  can  reverse  these  trends,  but  it  will  not  be  possible  without  a  radical 
shift  away  from  the  style  of  governance  practiced  by  our  current  city  manager.  And  we  can  look  to  other  cities 
across the country and around the world that are dealing with some of the same problems for inspiration. In Seattle, 
socialist city councillor Kshama Sawant is fighting to pass a progressive tax on the richest businesses in her city in 
order to build thousands of permanently affordable, city owned social housing units. We could raise taxes on our 
local 1%, Harvard, MIT, big tech and Big Pharma, and do the same and much more. Along similar lines, Montreal is 
now using the right of first refusal to purchase private buildings that are up for sale to make into social housing. In 
Baldwin, Florida, the disappearance of affordable grocery stores led the town to open and run its own city owned 
grocery store. Meanwhile, central square is already an affordable food desert. And if a republican town can do this 
in Florida, why on earth can't the so-called People's Republic of Cambridge? But grocery stores of course aren't the 
only casualty of our current system. From EMF to Green Street, the so called "cultural district" is losing art space 
after  art  space.  Faced  with  a  similar  problem,  Vancouver  opened  a  city  owned  art  space  that  provides  affordable 
spaces to over 20 artists last year. Of course, it'd be very easy to keep funding our city through luxury development. 
We don't have to anger the powerful by raising their taxes, and those that we harm like this won't be here very long 
to complain. But if we want to live up to our values as a city, I urge you to hire a city manager with the courage and 
vision  to  help  build  a  Cambridge  that  truly  lives  up  to  our  stated  values.  And  this  cannot  be  done  unless  social 
spending is vastly increased and funded by progressive taxation instead of displacement driving development. And 
it's  already  been noted by  previous  speakers,  but  I  just  wanted  to  reiterate  that  this  is  an  inherently  undemocratic 
position. And as you are, you know, our elected, city councilors are elected, are actually accountable to us, we are 
really looking to you to take this matter seriously. And make sure that we're not just, you know, keeping this guy in 
because that's what we're doing. Thank you.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  40:49   
Thank you for your testimony. No clapping please. I ask that you honor the decorum that is called for in this room. 
The  reason  why  we  discourage  clapping,  hooting,  screaming,  booing  -  it's  so  that  everyone  feels  comfortable, 
whether  they  are  for  or  against.  We  want  everyone  to  feel  equal  in  their  ability  to  give  their  opinion.  And  so  it 
always  feels  good  to  say  "atta  person"  to  someone  that  says  something  that  you  like,  but  it  may  also  discourage 
someone that might have a dissenting opinion. So I would respectfully ask that you not make commentary verbally 
or non verbally. Thank you.  
 
Richard Crushnick  41:35   
Richard Crushnick, 20 Oak Street. I wanted to echo the comments of Dennis Carlone and Ben Simon. I agree with 
some  of  the  things  Ben  suggested  that  other  cities  are  doing,  not  all  of  them,  but  the  general  idea  that  Ben  is 
presenting, I also agree with. I find it  - Dennis is not suggesting that we spend every available penny. He made a 
suggestion that we  might consider spending $20 million out of the billion that we've left on the table, which isn't 
exactly  trying  to  spend  every  penny  that  we  can  spend.  I  think  to  say  that  the  city  is  making  great  strides,  great 
progress  in  maintaining  the  diversity  of  the  city  is  sort  of  a  sad  joke.  I  mean,  the  city's  demographic  statistics 
demonstrate how from 1960 to 2010, the city lost - the percentage of the city that were families was reduced by half. 
The percentage of the city that was zero to 19 years old was reduced by half. The percentage of the city that are 20 
to 40 years old was increased by some astronomical number, they are now half the city's entire population. The city 
is rapidly becoming a homogeneous city of highly paid 20 to 40 year olds and their young families. So don't tell me 
that the city is doing a great job of maintaining the diversity in the city, because it's not. And it can easily afford to 
do  so,  with  minimal,  minimal  impact  on  the  taxation  of  people.  So  I  think  it's  absolutely  crazy  to  renew  the  city 
manager's contract because we know exactly what we're getting if we do that. And it's  not what the city needs and 
can very easily afford to make really profound improvements in maintaining the diversity of the city and making it 
more  affordable.  Just  because  we're  spending  more  money  on  affordable  housing,  doing  everything  that  the 
developers  and  MIT  and  Big  Pharma  want,  drives  up  land  costs  so  high,  as  long  as  there's  infinite  demand,  you 
know, is the way the market is performing, that we're still displacing more people than we're keeping. Because the 
80% of the market units drive land costs up so much that it displaces more people than the 20% that we're keeping 
in. And if you can't count -- 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  44:37   
Mr. Crushnick your time is expired, and I thank you for your testimony. Lee Farris, followed by Heather Hoffman. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 8 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 19, 2020 

Lee Farris  44:49   
Good morning, Mayor and councillors and Madam Chair. Lee Farris 269 Norfolk Street. I ask that this committee 
not  take  a  vote  yet  on  extending  the  manager's  contract,  and  that  instead  the  committee  work  to  put  in  place  a 
process to review the manager regularly with public input, and using criteria based in part on the council's priorities. 
I also ask that at the same time, the committee work to put in place a process to conduct a true nationwide search, 
including  what  the  committee  is  looking  for,  what  Cambridge  is  looking  for,  and  that  that  also  be open  to public 
input. I do not think we had a true nationwide search last time. I agree with the councilors who are saying that the 
council  priorities  should  be  used  in  evaluating  the  manager.  And  I  agree  that  affordable  housing,  broadband,  and 
many of the other things that folks have brought up need to be part of that evaluation process. I want to push back on 
the fact that the manager, during Envision, which I was appointed to the housing task force, or working group on, 
the  manager  promised  to  discuss  taxes  and  the  tax  base  and  the  ratio  of  commercial  to  housing  development. 
Because  we  were  told  during  the  Envision  process,  we  could  not  make  a  recommendation  on  the  proportion  of 
housing to commercial because we weren't in possession of the facts about how that would impact taxes. And the 
manager promised about a year and a quarter ago to deliver that information. He has not. And I think that, in terms 
of being able to govern the city, that's one of the most important things that needs to be understood and the manager 
has therefore continued the policy of the prior administrations that there has to be in any new development area 60% 
commercial and 40% housing. We are never going to be able to  house the people that we need to house, whether 
affordable or market, if we continue with that policy. So that's just one example where the manager has not come 
through on promises. I think the point about trying to get an understanding with the manager or an agreement about 
when a policy order is made to the manager, how long does he have to respond, would be really helpful in terms of 
better governance. Thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  47:44   
Thank  you  for  your  commentary.  And  for  anyone  that  has  written  comments,  please  leave  them  with  our  clerk. 
They'll  be  made  part  of  the  record,  or  if  they're  received by  12  o'clock  midnight  tonight,  they  can  be part  of  this 
record, there's a box somewhere, I can't see from here. Thank you, very good. The next speaker is Heather Hoffman 
fall by Saul Tannenbaum. Thank you.  
 
Heather Hoffman  48:24   
Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street. And I want to talk about what kind of manager we need to take us into the 21st 
century. For about 40 years, because as was observed, Cambridge was in terrible fiscal shape, our policy has been 
shaped by getting money. It has not been shaped by figuring out how to make this a good place to live in, for the 
people  who  don't  have  a  lot  of  money,  or  for  people  who  have  some  money,  but  not  enough,  like  me.  It's  been 
shaped by figuring out how Cambridge can drag money into its coffers. And we don't look at much of anything else. 
We talk about a whole lot of other things. But, you know, by their work, we shall know them, and our works are 
getting money. We don't have a vision beyond that. Now, lots of us - that's why the city council has goals - lots of us 
think about vision. And I'm old enough to remember George H.W. Bush talking about "the vision thing" and how he 
didn't have it. Did that make him a bad person? No. It meant that that's not what he was good at. And what I see all 
over  the  place,  and  in  the  City  of  Cambridge,  and  just  throughout  this  society,  is  people  being  put  into  positions 
where the gifts that they have are not what's needed for that position. And I personally think that that is a disservice 
to everybody. Think about serial entrepreneurs. They're people who have a great idea, they are able to turn their idea 
into  something  to  build  a  business.  And  then  most  of  them  leave  because  their  gift  is  building  a  new  thing.  not 
keeping an existing thing going. Well, what we need at this point, because we all know that our city is hurting in a 
whole lot of ways, is someone who can figure out how to have a vision that goes beyond the checkbook. And if you 
think that the current city manager is that person then you should definitely extend his contract. But what I see -- 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  51:24   
Ms.  Hoffman,  your  time  has  expired.  I  thank  you,  if  your  testimony  is  written  please  leave  it  in  the  box.  Saul 
Tannenbaum, followed by Carolyn Magid. 
 
Saul Tannenbaum  51:39   
Hi,  I'm  Saul  Tannenbaum,  16  Cottage  Street.  Madam  Chair,  councillors,  I'd  like  to  address  the  city  manager's 
request for extension and that letter, which I found really quite shocking. First, I'll just pose a question: Should the 
manager  actually  be  representing  that  his  contract  is  an  element  of  the  city's  financial  stability?  Shouldn't  he  be 
representing  that  he's  built  a  team  and  systems  that  would  keep  the  city  financially  stable,  regardless  of  what 
happens to him? I mean, after all, he's not going to live forever. So, you know, I mean, I think that just with the 

City of Cambridge 

Page 9 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 19, 2020 

starting  assumption,  the  council  should  look  really  skeptically  at  this  letter.  The  second  thing  I  would  add,  is  to 
contradict Mr. Simon who says the city is run like a business. The city isn't run like a business. There's no measure 
of efficiency or effectiveness. The  city manager's reluctant to spend a dollar, but from all appearances, he doesn't 
care  whether that dollar is spent well, whether it's getting you the results it's opposed to, whether the services are 
efficiently  delivered,  or  effectively  delivered.  Whoever  is  the  next  manager  of  this  city  -  that  should  be  fixed.  I 
mean, there's no other half-billion dollar a year enterprise that would not run without metrics of its health. That's just 
simply  shocking.  The  other  thing  that's  shocking  is  what  my  friend  Christopher  Schmidt  mentioned:  this  city 
manager is uncollegial. It may well be that he's a great guy behind closed doors. But I was watching the number of 
policy orders that went unresponded to at the end of last year - it was close to 100. That's just ridiculous. Either you 
guys are asking too much, which I don't think you are, or the city manager is incapable of responding. The primary 
example  of  that  is  municipal  broadband,  where  he  simply  cut  off  the  fact-finding  process.  He  simply  stopped  it 
without  talking  to  anybody,  and  without  responding  to  policy  order  after  policy  order.  He's  never  come  to  the 
council and explained his decision. He's said things to many of you behind closed doors, some of which are contrary 
to known facts. And the real question is, you know, why has he done that? Nobody knows. I mean, I've talked to 
councilors, and they asked me why he's against municipal broadband. I don't know. I mean, that's really you know, 
your job. I don't think any single issue should be the determinant of the contract situation. But the fact that he is so 
grossly uncollegial on its face should figure large and how and if you extend his contract, thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  54:34   
Thank you for your testimony. We have Carol Magid, followed by Timothy Flaherty. 
 
Carolyn Magid  54:44   
Hi, thank you for having me. I'm Carolyn Magid. I live at 71 Reed Street in North Cambridge. I, first of all, I agree 
with the more negative view of how well Cambridge is serving low and middle income people that's been expressed 
by many people here. In fact, it seems to me it's hard to miss that that's true. Secondly, I want to agree with the need 
for review. And in particular, I like the 360 review, that would involve all of us in the in the review process. And 
that the review should be based on goals. I also agree with Councillor Carlone on the commitment to using more of 
the budget to meet needs, including for affordable housing. And I agree with Ben Simon and some others who have 
suggested that we should be looking at social housing models, and not just market based solutions. And finally, and 
this is a point that other people have made and will probably continue to make. We need a manager who will agree 
to  follow  the  directives  of  the  Council.  And  I  think  if  this  manager  won't  agree  to  do  that,  in  principle,  then  he 
should not be reappointed. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  55:56   
Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Tim Flaherty, followed by Charles Franklin.  
 
Tim Flaherty  56:04   
Good morning my name is Timothy Flaherty, I live at 103 Fresh Pond Parkway with my wife and my nine year old 
son Timothy, who is the fifth generation of Flahertys to live in this city. I grew up in North Cambridge. This is an 
excellent city, maybe the best run city and the United States of America. I've lived here my entire life. It has a triple 
A bond rating, three new public schools, fantastic improvements of Fresh Pond, excellent town-gown relations, an 
incredibly talented staff. Excellent city services. This morning I was late taking out the trash barrels, and the trash 
hauler  came  and  helped  me;  that  doesn't  happen  in  Wellesley.  This  is  not  happening  by mistake.  And  there's  one 
parallel there's one common denominator, his name's Louie DePasquale. Someone remarked about equity. As many 
of you know, I worked in the cannabis development here in Cambridge over the last couple of years and because of 
that perspective, I work very closely with many of you, and with Mr. DePasquale and with other members of the city 
staff.  And  I  can  tell  you  on  both  sides  of  the  of  the  political  spectrum,  registered  marijuana  dispensaries  and 
economic  empowerment  applicants,  Mr.  DePasquale  was  absolutely  transparent,  collaborative,  working  with  Ms. 
Glowa and other members and he was even handed, thoughtful, and fair throughout the process, irregardless of the 
political  consequences.  I  want  to  give  four  specific  observations  that  I've  made  as  to  why  a  national  search  will 
never find someone better suited to be the city manager then Louie DePasquale. Number one, I would take my son 
before the basketball program was terminated at the Y - in the dead of winter, Saturday mornings, without parking, 
and I would park behind city hall where I wasn't supposed to park, I would see one car there at 7:45 am. It was Mr. 
DePasquale on a Saturday morning. Two: my son, who isn't much of an athlete but wants to play with the other kids, 
I would take him down to the Tobin field. It's legendary, Mr. DePasquale's commitment to West Cambridge Little 
League. When you have a son who isn't an athlete but wants to play with the other kids, and doesn't know what to do 

City of Cambridge 

Page 10 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 19, 2020 

and won't listen to his father, you will thank your lucky stars for the man raking the infield, in his spare time, who 
walks over and takes your son by his hand and teaches him how to play baseball. That's our city manager. Three: go 
to St. Peter's on a Sunday morning at 9:30 am, and you will see him in the pew with his wife religiously, and I use 
that word, specifically, religiously, because he's a man of faith. That's a decent, excellent character that he has. And 
four: lose a friend as I did recently, just around Christmas, tragically, who happened to be a low level laborer at the 
City Water Department, and then go to his wake and see the people there. And suddenly you see your city manager 
standing in line to offer a few words of comfort to his family - 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  59:06   
Mr. Flaherty, your time is expired. But if your remarks are in print, we would respectfully ask you to submit them to 
the Clerk and will make them part of the record. 
 
Tim Flaherty  59:14   
They're not in print. Thank you for the time, I urge you to please extend his contract. Thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  59:19   
Our next speaker is Charles Franklin. 
 
Charles Franklin  59:31   
Morning Council, thank you for having this hearing. I'm Charles Franklin. I live at 160 Hampshire Street. I think a 
lot of the criticisms I've heard today have been fair, so I don't want to rehash any of them. So I'm going to keep my 
comments short. Someone who is very rarely told no will never respect you. So I think that just very well describes 
kind of the last council session. And in terms of doing things in free time, I wasn't going to say this but now I'm now 
I feel the need to because of other comments. When the Caribbean festival was canceled, and we had a march and 
we marched to Union Baptist, it was seven o'clock and our police commissioner was there, thanks to him, but the 
city manager was not there. And it was his decision to cancel it. And we had a whole church of people who were sad 
and angry that their important -- some people who come to this city to this country once a year to see their family, to 
show their culture canceled last minute and the man made the decision could not be there because no explanation 
was given. It was 7pm. What was he doing? He wasn't running the city at 7pm. That was unacceptable. I'm sorry. I 
wasn't going to say that. But I remembered when I was walking up here. I was like, No, no, no, he's not going to get 
away with that. It's on the record now. Thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:00:51   
Thank you so much for your testimony. There are two other individuals who signed saying they were not sure if they 
want to speak I will call their names and Invite them to speak if they wish. Not sure was Shelly Wortis still here, 
would she like to speak?   
 
Shelly Wortis  1:01:17   
Yeah. Shelley Wortis, I live at 106 Berkshire Street in Cambridge. And I agree with a lot of the comments that were 
made earlier. And specifically, I think we do need to look ahead at what the search process will be, and to consider 
how to evaluate the city manager before extending his contract. When I look at the city's goals from 2017, they're 
not very specific. Things like "deepen our commitment  to sustainable use of energy" and "strengthen our capacity 
for resilience." What does that mean? How are we going to measure whether the city manager in his position was 
able to do that when we have this extensive commercial over-development that's led to so much displacement in the 
city. And then you look at a goal like "make it easy to drive safely through the city, especially by sustainable means 
of transportation." Look at how much traffic has increased in the city. Is that leading to sustainable transportation? 
And  is  it  easy  for  people  who  live  here  to  travel  safely  through  the  city?  "Ensure  that  Cambridge  remains  an 
innovation hub that integrates business of all sizes into a thriving ecosystem." Specifically, what is an ecosystem? 
Don't  the  people  who  live  here  constitute  part  of  that  ecosystem?  And  how  has  all  this  commercial  over-
development in this city led to a thriving ecosystem? So I would just suggest that the council review its goals and 
make them much more specific before you (a) search for a new city manager or - first of all, you know, look at this 
city manager and consider whether or not to extend his contract. Because in my mind, these goals, don't really do it 
for the residents of Cambridge. Thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:03:46   

City of Cambridge 

Page 11 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 19, 2020 

Thank you for your commentary. There was another person that signed up as "not sure." I'd like to call their name 
and invite them to speak if they so wish. Ms. O'Hare? 
 
Carol O'Hare  1:04:00   
Thank you. I will be brief. I agree that the city has just too much focus on that rainy day fund for the rainy day that 
is the catastrophe that we have all that money stashed away for, and not enough money spent on pre-K education. 
That  is  just  one  example  of  the  obsession  about  saving  money  and  it's  not  surprising  because  the  current  city 
manager was the longtime finance manager. I do think that there isn't enough time to do a nationwide search and 
that the city should focus on the goal - follow Councilor Quinton Zondervan's suggestion, and that is do both, which 
is to evaluate and to consider what you're going to do when you do a nationwide search. Thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:05:22   
And thank you for your comments. Although it is not a part of our rules, it is our custom to ask if there's anyone that 
didn't sign up that would like to speak. I would like to offer that coming forward if you would give your name your 
address, and please, the amount of time is three minutes. Thank you. 
 
Fritz Donovan  1:05:41   
Thank you Madam Chair, Fritz Donovan 42 Irving Street, Cambridge. A veteran of the city since I arrived as a deer 
in the headlights in 1955 as a freshman, and I'm enjoying it well into my 80s now. What we have here is essentially 
the Battle of the budget. That usually is a term applied when there isn't enough money to go around. In this case, we 
have - I think the last estimate I heard was 340 million dollar cash reserve uncommitted. So it changes the picture 
somewhat. I take pleasure in ending as this round of comments on the same note that Councilor Carlone brought up, 
which is essentially that it's a matter of goals. For centuries budgeting has been done piece by piece, looking at the 
current expiring budget, estimating whether individual items have to go up or down or be left alone and then going 
forward with a new budget with minor modifications. But along came a thing called "zero based budgeting," which 
is absolutely brilliant. It says, You start with a budget of zero. And then you reveal your, your goals. You establish 
ideal goals with vision and creativity, then you formulate a means to achieve them, then you allocate resources to do 
it. And Budget B may bear no relation, whatever, to Budget A. It probably won't if Budget A is a traditional budget, 
piece  by  piece,  up  a  little  down  a  little.  Our  budget  is  relatively  static.  We  desperately  need  to  move  funds  into 
affordable  housing.  We  need  to  come  up  with  an  affordable  housing  plan  that  does  not destroy  our  environment, 
does not disregard design and so forth. I think the last time around, failed because it didn't meet those logical things. 
But what we  need is vision. We need creativity. We need somebody who can do that. So I would say before you 
even start looking at Manager DePasquale's performance, you start looking at your goals. You establish the goals, 
you  prioritize  them,  and  then  you  and  then  you  compare  what  you  have  with  what  you  need,  and  then  you  act 
accordingly. Thank you.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:08:16   
Thank you for your testimony. Is there anyone that would like to come forward and speak? Please do so, give your 
name and address for the record/ 
 
Phyllis Bretholtz  1:08:31   
Good morning, and thank you for extending the time. I'm Phyllis Bretholtz, I live at 65 Antrim Street. I agree with 
virtually  every  comment  that's  been  made  so  far  in  terms  of  the  need  for  transparency  in  evaluating  the  city 
manager's performance level. I feel it's really important for residents to have some involvement in all of this process. 
I think we have sacrificed a sense. The word that I haven't  heard very much this morning is the word community. 
And  I  feel  strongly  that  by building  so  much  commercial  development  and  micro  units,  we  are  guaranteeing  that 
there is no place for community. We need families to have community. That means housing that's affordable, that's 
large  enough  to both  hold  and  be  available  to  families,  that  have  play  space  for  children.  As  a  former  veteran  of 
teaching at the high school, I feel that the future of our schools we have beautiful new buildings, but if we don't have 
the families, and the early childhood education, to cultivate and make room for these families, we're going to lose 
much of our sense of community and we're at risk of doing that. I want to reiterate my deep, deep disappointment at 
the  loss  of  all  of  the  artists  space.  There  is  some  tragic  irony  in  central  square  being  designated  a  Massachusetts 
Cultural Center. And now we have lost so many spaces where artists can work and perform. We have virtually no 
more easy access to any kind of public space where artists can perform and show their work. And finally, I would 
like to, there was someone who commented on the structure of the city and the involvement of citizens at all level. 
And in talking with a number - I've lived here since the 60s, and in talking with  a number of city councillors who 

City of Cambridge 

Page 12 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 19, 2020 

were on the city council in the 60s and the 70s, it seems in talking with them and my own observation, that the city 
council had much more power in terms of making decisions, and it now appears that the city council really  has to 
have the approval of the city manager for almost anything going forward, rather than having the power invested in 
the city councilors whom we have voted on. And it seems a real reversal. And it happened kind of gradually. So it's 
difficult to say at any one point where or how it happened. But this is my observation. Thank you very much. And I 
will write some comments that I will then submit before the evening. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:11:32   
Is there  anyone  else that had not signed up and would like to speak? Please do so by giving your name and your 
address? Thank you so much. 
 
Alice Heller  1:11:41   
Hi – Alice Heller, 22 Corporal Burns Road. I want to not repeat all that's been said, though I echo a lot. I want to 
represent some neighbors who have question the timing of this important meeting and illuminate the fact that I think 
a lot more people would be here if it wasn't morning meeting. And feel that constituents should be involved in the 
decision to view the city manager's position. So a couple quick points, jumping down, I agree the committee should 
have  a  review  and  process  before  voting  on  renewing  the  city  manager  contract.  I  agree  that  we  need  a  vision 
beyond  the  checkbook.  I've  personally  been  involved  in  groups  and  we  are  very  disappointed  in  the  inaction 
regarding  issues  regarding  to climate  change, deliberate  absence  of  the  pedestrian  bridge  in  the  Alewife  area  that 
was again promised was actually in documents and now taken out. And yeah, bottom line, I agree that we need a 
manager who follows the directive of the Council. So thank you for your time. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:13:12   
Thank you for your comments. Is there anyone else that would like to speak that did not sign up? Hearing none, I 
will entertain a motion to close public comment. On a motion by Councillor Toomey to close public comment. All 
those in favor say aye. Opposed? Ayes have it and public comment is now closed. I want to turn back to the council 
to see if there any further comments from the council. Councillor Zondervan? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  1:13:38   
Thank you, Madam Chair, and my thanks and appreciation to the members of the public who did manage to attend, 
despite the early hour. Obviously it's a very weighty decision that's before us. And, you know, we've heard a lot of 
comments about what isn't working in our city and also some comments about what is working in our city. For me 
personally, the really big question is what is coming down the road? What does our future look like? And having 
worked on climate change, in particular for a long time, as well as wealth and income inequality, I think those are 
two really, really big issues that we are facing that will make our future very different from the past. And because of 
that difference in that challenge, I think we have to be very deliberate about who we put in charge of managing our 
city, managing our budgets, and really driving the priorities in how we spend our tax dollars. So for that reason, I 
think we have to be really thoughtful about the process that we're going to follow going forward. So I have a couple 
of suggestions, actually, three motions that I would like to introduce. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:15:17   
Before we introduce any motions - the purpose of this meeting was basically to accept the manager's letter, which is 
a procedural matter. And I want to get some ideas what folks wanted to do like going forward. So if you wanted to 
do your suggestions, and I would collect all that information, and then push it back out to the council in order to put 
together a process? Thank you so much. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  1:15:44   
Thank you, Madam Chair. That's fine with me. So three suggestions: One, to evaluate or goals, our council goals, 
because  I  think  they  could  definitely  use  a  refresh.  Second  to  initiate  an  evaluation  of  the  city  manager's 
performance since the beginning of his contract. And third, to initiate a conversation, perhaps in this committee on 
how  we  will  conduct  a  nationwide  search  for  city  manager,  again,  regardless  of  whether  we  do  that  starting 
immediately or after a year or so, into the current manager's contract, we can never be too early in discussing how 
we would conduct such a process. So those are my suggestions. Thank you.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:16:40   
Thank you for your comments. Members of the committee? Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler. 

City of Cambridge 

Page 13 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 19, 2020 

 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler  1:16:46   
Thank you. I had a point of information. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:16:49   
Please keep your voice up. 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler  1:16:50   
Thank  you.  Yeah,  I  had  a  point  of  information  that  hopefully  the  clerk  could  help  us  answer  in  that  what  would 
accepting the city manager's letter mean, and what would not accepting it mean? I'd like the council to have done an 
evaluation of the city manager before we take formal steps towards extending the contract. And that may make sense 
to do that before we accept the letter. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:17:11   
Thank you, Councilor. So what I believe: accepting the  letter is just putting the  letter taking it out of where  it is, 
which is communications, which were forwarded to the council. It formally puts the letter before us because quite 
frankly, I don't think to get the letters formally before us, and that I'm asking for this vote on the advice of our color. 
But you did ask of our solicitor, so I'll grant the floor to the solicitor to respond to your query. I thought you said the 
solicitor...? 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler  1:17:47   
Whoever makes more sense to answer it. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:17:49   
Then I apologize. I misheard. Thank you for that clarification, Mr. Clerk. 
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  1:17:58   
My  understanding  is  that  accepting  the  letter  will  make  it  part  of  the  city  council's  formal  record  that  the  city 
manager has requested an extension of his contract. I don't believe and I would defer to city solicitor that it wouldn't 
necessarily impact how the city council goes forward with whatever process it takes in terms of the selection. But 
the letter would be in the record is the document in many ways initiating this conversation. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:18:29   
Are you satisfied with that response? 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler  1:18:32   
I would, I guess, double check with the solicitor, since the clerk seemed to defer to the solicitor. 
 
Nancy Glowa, City Solicitor  1:18:38   
Thank you, and through you, Madam Chair. Yes. I think that it's just a procedural matter of accepting the letter that 
has been submitted. I don't think it means anything about the process to be followed one way or the other. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:18:51   
Are you satisfied with the answer? 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler  1:18:53   
I am, thank you. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:18:56   
Thank you. Other members of the committee? Councillor Nolan, we'll hear from you.  
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan  1:19:02   
Thank you, Madam Chair. Just a comment to build on what we're all talking about in  terms of ensuring that goals 
are  included.  I  certainly hope  and  would  work  very hard  to  ensure  that  any  goals  are  smart  goals.  There's  lots  of 
evidence and research to suggest that if you don't have a SMART goal  - smart standing for Specific, Measurable, 
Achievable, Relevant, and Time-based. There's different ways that those SMART can be used, but they basically are 

City of Cambridge 

Page 14 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 19, 2020 

in the category of that - what I said, SMART is the acronym for those kinds of goals, with the idea that if the goals 
are  not smart, there is no way to tell if they're achieved. So I hope  that I recognize, I believe, the current council 
goals  may  not  be  smart.  The  goals  for  the  city  manager  may  not  currently  be  smart.  But  I  would  advocate  very 
strongly  and  hope  that  we  would  move  forward  with  any  kind  of  smart  goals  ensuring  that  we  have  specific 
measurable  goals,  in  particular  to  ensure  that  we  all  know  -  the  great  thing  is,  if  you  meet  them,  then  you  can 
celebrate. And if you don't, then you say, oh, how do we adjust to ensure that we can meet them next time? 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:19:02   
Councillor Carlone? 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  1:20:21   
Thank you, Madam Chair. I totally agree with Councillor Nolan. And just for a quick summary of the past. When I 
came on to the council in 2014, there were no goals in our book for the whole term, which I couldn't understand. 
And some of us got together and said we should have goals and we tried to make them as specific as possible, but as 
you can imagine, in a group of nine people, they were neutralized in some way. But I totally support your statement. 
And we tried to do that in the last round actually calling out number of units and affordable housing. But that was 
taken off the table, but I support doing such a thing. Thank you, Madam Chair. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:21:15   
Thank  you  for  your  comments.  Any  other  comments?  Hearing  none,  next  steps:  so  the  Committee  on  Goals  and 
Claims  having  voted  to  accept  the  letter.  The  letter  is  now  a  part  of  the  record  and  can  be  responded  to  in  like. 
Second: I'm initiating to the members of this committee to submit to us -- 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  1:21:44   
Madam Chair, point of order. We did not vote to accept the letter yet. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:21:48   
I thought we did, I apologize. Okay. So I had some clarity from the clerk. You're asking that we vote to accept the 
letter to present it to the city council. Is that the correct vote? Which is a procedural vote.  
 
Anthony Wilson, City Clerk  1:22:10   
Just for clarification, I believe this letter was submitted to the city council as a communication through Councillor 
Simmons,  and  then  the  council  referred  it  to  the  Government  Operations  committee.  Therefore,  the  vote  for  the 
committee  would  be  to  refer  the  communication  back  to  the  city  council  with  a  recommendation  to  accept  the 
communication. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:22:34   
So  I'm  going  to  go  back  to  that.  And  thank  you  so  much  for  your  edification.  So  there's  a  vote  before  us  by  a 
member of the committee, Councillor Toomey, would like to put forward a vote that we accept - or was it you? So if 
there's no discussion, then I would accept a vote by Councillor Toomey to accept the letter from the city manager. 
Discussion?  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:23:05   
Hearing none.  On the matter - All those in favor say Aye. Opposed? The ayes have it. The next step, I would like to 
take the information that we've gathered here to bring back to you at another meeting to comment on a number of 
issues that were presented on the floor from the committee, after which we could then decide how to go forward. 
Discussion? Excellent. So if if you would like to render - this is to the members of the committee in particular - your 
thoughts? We'll also take in any mention of your comments. So again, I want to say to those that testified, if you 
want to have your comments on the record, if you submit them by midnight, then they'll be a part of these minutes 
that will go forward to the council. But for the members here, of course anyone but I'm speaking specifically to the 
members should render their thoughts to me so I can then pull those together working with the city solicitor and the 
clerk to come back to this to this committee.   
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan  1:24:23   
When you said anyone here  if you want your notes to be part of the record to put them in the basket, if someone 
testified in public comment, don't those get reflected in the minutes of the meeting and therefore will be part of the 

City of Cambridge 

Page 15 

  

Minutes 

Government Operations, Rules & Claims Committee 

February 19, 2020 

public record? Or are you suggesting if you didn't  get a chance to finish your comments, I'm just trying to clarify 
what's on -  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:24:42   
Let  me  just  say  it  again.  If  you  misunderstood,  which  I  understand  happens,  others  might.  We  often  ask  if  your 
comments  are  written  that  you  submit  them  electronically.  Of  course,  your  comments  go  into  the  record  by 
testimony. But if you also have comments that  you didn't have an opportunity to write that and you would like to 
have them in written form in the record, if you have them to the clerk, date stamped before midnight, it will be part 
of the minutes that go forward to the council. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  1:25:20   
Hearing no further business under this committee, I would like to entertain  - on a motion by Councillor Toomey to 
adjourn,  all  those  in  favor?  Opposed?  The  ayes  have  it.  The  meeting  is  adjourned,  I  want  to  thank  all  for  your 
attention. 
 
meeting adjourned at 11:25am 

1.  A communication was received from Councillor Simmons, transmitting a letter from City Manager 
Louis A. DePasquale, who is serving formal notice of his desire to enter into formal negotiations with 
the City Council to extend his contract with the City beyond January 2021 . 

 

City of Cambridge 

Page 16 

  

