ORDINANCE COMMITTEE 
 

COMMITTTEE MEETING 

~ MINUTES ~ 

5:00 PM 

Remote Meeting 

  Wednesday, July 8, 2020 

  Call to Order 

Attendee Name 
Dennis J. Carlone 

Alanna Mallon 

Marc C. McGovern 

Patricia Nolan 

Sumbul Siddiqui 

E. Denise Simmons 

Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler 

Timothy J. Toomey 

Quinton Zondervan 

Present 

Absent 

Late 

Arrived 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Ordinance Committee met to conduct a public hearing on a petition to add an Affordable 
Housing Ordinance to the City’s Zoning Ordinances 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone called the meeting to Order at 5:10pm.  He explained that the 
governor's executive order issued on March 1, 2020 has authorized the use of remote 
participation, participation at meetings of the city's public bodies in response to the threat posed 
to the public by the COVID-19 virus, and that the city council was holding this meeting 
remotely.   
 
Councillor Marc McGovern made a presentation about the procedural history of the proposed 
Affordable Housing Ordinance (hereinafter “AHO”). He explained that the City Council first 
started having formal meetings about an Affordable Housing Ordinance around November 2018. 
He explained that the Housing Committee held five meetings in which about 170 people spoke 
about the AHO. There have been five Ordinance Committee meetings in which about 50 people 
spoke on the subject. The Planning Board had three meetings related to the AHO in 2018-2019 
with about 34 public commentators. There were 15 neighborhood meetings with staff 
presentations, seven open houses in public spaces across the city on the AHO. The Housing 
Committee held a meeting on the AHO last term in which they discussed affordable housing 
financing where about 80 people spoke. In all there were about 250 public commentators and 35 
public events and meetings to discuss this topic. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern explained that the AHO was refiled in February 2020 but sat on the 
table due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  The petition was refiled again on June 8. He explained 
that the Planning Board would schedule a meeting on the petition sometime in August.  He 
explained that the Ordinance Committee will have another meeting on the AHO in late August or 
early September. Councillor McGovern stated there have been over 40 amendments that have 
been added to during this process. 

City of Cambridge 

Page 1 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

July 8, 2020 

 
Staff members from Community Development (hereinafter “CDD”) made a presentation to the 
Committee.  Representing CDD were Iram Farooq, Assistant City Manager for Community 
Development, Jeff Roberts, Director of zoning and development, Chris Cotter, housing director, 
Cassie Arnaud, senior housing planner, Daniel Messplay, Senior manager for zoning and 
development, Erik Thorkildsen, urban designer in the community planning group and Arthur 
Goldberg from the city solicitor's office.  
 
She explained that this process dated back to 2014 when the city council passed ab order asking 
us to determine what the city would need to do in order to create 1000 new affordable housing 
units by 2020. Staff met with various stakeholders and the people who are involved in 
development of affordable housing and, in 2015, presented a report to the Coty Council with a 
series of recommendations. The city has gradually been implementing those action steps in the 
intervening years.   
 
Since then the City Council has adopted and increased incentives zoning provisions which is 
essentially a funding contribution to Affordable Housing Trust that comes from non-residential 
development in the city. 
 
In addition, City funds have been allocated as part of the operating budget to at the behest of city 
council to the Affordable Housing Trust and, in principle, those funds were coming from 
building permit fees or percentage of building permit fees.  
 
Since the adoption of Community Preservation Act, the city has consistently and allocated the 
maximum amount possible, which is 80% of the funds, to the creation and preservation of 
affordable housing. The City also in 2017, adopted changes to the inclusionary zoning provisions 
which is the percentage of new residential construction that is required to be affordable to people 
who are families who make 80% of the area median income or less. That used to be it used to net 
out to just over 12% and has now been increased to 20% 
 
The Affordable Housing Ordinance would allow additional density and changes to the zoning 
ordinance that would facilitate the creation of affordable housing, make additional sites available 
and streamline the permitting process for buildings that are 100% affordable and permanently 
affordable.   
 
She explained that there are only a handful of people or entities in the city who develop 
affordable housing and most of them are nonprofit.  She explained that every affordable housing 
project in the city in recent years has required significant subsides from city, state and federal 
entities. 
 
one of the cornerstones of the petition is ensuring that affordable housing is equitably distributed 
throughout the city. Currently, there are parts of the city that do not have any, or very little, 
affordable housing while there are larger concentrations in other parts of the city.  
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 2 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

July 8, 2020 

The principal reasons for the disparity are the difficulty in competing with market-rate 
developers for sites. The second reason is the zoning itself, which creates significant limitations; 
for instance, some districts do not permit multifamily housing.  
 
She explained that historical segregation has concentrated affordable housing in areas of the city 
thought to be undesirable.  She explained that this systemic segregation has followed through in 
the current zoning ordinance. 
 

Councillor  Marc  McGovern  moved  to  extend  public  comment  sign  up 
until 6pm.  The motion passed by the following roll call vote: 
 
Yeas: 
Councillor Carlone, Councillor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor 
Nolan,  Councillor  Siddiqui,  Councillor  Simmons,  Councillor  Sobrinho-
Wheeler and Councillor Zondervan 
 
Absent: 
Councillor Toomey 

 
Jeff Roberts gave a general overview of zoning in Cambridge. He explained that through a 
provision in state law, affordable housing developments currently have the option of seeking 
zoning relief through a comprehensive permit process but there is a risk of an appeal and the 
process can be time consuming and cost prohibitive.  
 
The effect of the affordable housing overlay would be to provide an alternative to the process of 
seeking zoning relief by creating an alternative set of development standards, that  would 
specifically apply to affordable housing.  
 
Those standards are intended to enable greater density to make affordable housing development 
feasible to provide a predictable as of right permitting process and to apply city wide, including 
in some of those areas that currently have more restrictive zoning.  
 
He noted that the city's green building requirements, which were just updated last year, would 
continue to be applicable to these developments. Those green building requirements would not 
be waived or relieved under the Affordable Housing overlay. 
 
All developments under the proposed overlay, regardless of their size and their location, would 
be subject to an advisory design review process conducted by the planning board.  The idea 
behind this was to create and shared vision for the qualities that were desired in new affordable 
housing.  
 
Councillor Carlone opened public comment at 6:00 pm. 
 
Margaret Drury, 1 Dudley Court, Cambridge stated that she supported ordination of the proposed 
affordable housing zoning overlay. Due to the soaring costs of housing many black, brown and 
low-income residents have suffered displacement or the threat of displacement. Statistics show 

City of Cambridge 

Page 3 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

July 8, 2020 

that black brown and low-income Cambridge residents are three times as likely as other residents 
to become infected with the corona virus. People who cannot afford to stay in their homes often 
end up in overcrowded under resourced, shared accommodations, where it is impossible to stay 
six feet away from other residents. more affordable housing is desperately needed. Without an 
affordable housing overlay, nonprofit builders of affordable housing will consistently be outbid 
by market rate developers can pay more and act more quickly than nonprofit developers. 
Nonprofit developers are hampered by their need to assemble complicated financing, including 
financing for the future operating costs for 100% affordable building. With the modest increase 
in density allowed in the city wide affordable housing overlay, along with more predictable 
review process, developers have 100% permanently affordable housing will be able to take 
advantage of building opportunities all over the city, and to spread the high cost of land and 
construction across more units, making them better able to compete against for profit developers 
and better able to fulfill their mission of decent and affordable housing for all members of the 
community. Most important of all, the overlay would go a long way towards ending the 
increased de facto segregation in Cambridge This segregation is neither equitable nor defensible. 
 
Brennan Waters, 466 Cambridge Street in East Cambridge. The community is hurt whenever a 
family has to leave Cambridge because the rent was raised and whenever new parents who love 
the city move out because they can't afford to buy a house or a condo here or whenever someone 
who works in Cambridge or even works for the City of Cambridge, can't afford to live here. She 
supports the affordable housing overlay. 
 
Allan Sadun, 17 pleasant place urged committee to forward the petition to city council for 
approval. He urged the committee to reject any amendments that would further restrict the set of 
possible developments or sites eligible for the affordable housing overlay. In California, there 
was a bill called sb 35 that was passed to streamline the approval of affording housing affordable 
housing developments. One affordable housing developer said last week that the bill reduced 
their average approval time from seven years to four months. That's a 95% reduction of costs on 
lawyers, consultants, public relations, etc. The biggest barrier to creating affordable housing is 
the fact that it is so hard to buy land for affordable housing to be built.  
 
James Zall, 203 Pemberton St, Unit 6, in Cambridge, there is no bigger and more consequential 
inequality than restrictive zoning. What started as a system for segregating housing by race and 
class, as evolved into a complex skein of policies and restrictions on height with density and 
other factors of building. The rules have been knotted so tightly that about 60% of the current 
housing, including buildings that most people like and admire, just couldn't be built today. And 
yet some are trying to restrict housing even further by such means is infrastructure impact 
certifications, and neighborhood historic committees.  Not enough housing is being built. A start 
on reforming the  restrictive zoning system doesn't have to wait on federal action on rule grants 
from the state legislature, or approval from the city manager. It's up to the city council to begin 
to reverse decades of damage by ordaining the affordable housing overlay promptly.  
 
Carolyn Fuller, 12 Douglass Street, spoke in support of the AHO. She hopes zoning is no longer 
allowed to be the tool used to bifurcate the city into the haves and the have nots. Restrictive 
zoning is currently hampering the city’s ability to reach stated affordable housing goals. It is time 
to loosen those restrictions for 100% affordable housing.  

City of Cambridge 

Page 4 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

July 8, 2020 

 
Jade Sylvan, 502 Green Street in Cambridge, lives in a multifamily three-story home that would 
probably not be allowed to be built under a lot of the restrictions that are currently in place. She 
stated that she supports the Affordable Housing Overlay. 
 
David Sullivan, 16 Notre Dame Avenue in North Cambridge, strongly supports the proposed 
affordable housing overlay. He believed the housing crisis in Cambridge has become worse over 
the last few years. It is important to address the long history of redlining and other racial 
segregation that has occurred in the past. Urged committee not to adopt amendments that will 
dramatically weaken the purposes of this overlay. The purpose is to give affordable housing 
developers a chance to compete fairly in all neighborhoods of the city, not just some.  
 
Loren Crowe, 8 Museum Way in East Cambridge. She supports the affordable housing Overlay. 
Council has a mandate to pass the AHO. City should choose to shift zoning ordinance from one 
that preserves the status quo to one that enables a more just community to be built. 
 
Christopher Schmidt, 17 Laurel street in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The affordable housing 
overlay would help find the opportunities for new affordable housing throughout the city.  The 
median price to purchase a single-family home is nearly twice that of a condominium. Despite 
decades of families being priced out, it is extremely important to find new ways to make homes 
available for those who do not make the median area median income. Please pass the affordable 
housing overlay as soon as possible and move on to so much more. 
 
Esther Hanig, 136 Pine Street in Cambridge. The passage of the Affordable Housing overlay 
would help to restore both some diversity and social justice to the city. According to the 2017 
Cambridge Community Needs Assessment, housing affordability is the most pressing issue that 
Cambridge currently faces. While housing affordability is a challenge for many there are 
vulnerable subpopulations that face particular challenges in this issue, including Black or African 
Americans. The neighborhood with the lowest rate of affordable housing is West Cambridge, the 
percentage of affordable housing is 1.3% and only 2.2% of the population is black. Urged 
council to pass the overlay quickly so that the city can begin to meet the need for more 
affordable housing, create true economic and racial diversity in all neighborhoods. 
 
Jackson Moore-Otto, 9 Doane Street. Strongly supports the Affordable Housing Overlay. The 
city needs abundant housing that includes the affordable housing overlay. 
 
Peter Williams, 35 Homer Avenue in West Cambridge. Strongly supports the Affordable 
Housing Overlay.  Cambridge is a wonderful place to live but right now, only the wealthy can 
afford to actually buy a home here.  The restrictions that lead to this unaffordability have 
explicitly racist roots. The people who designed the policies might be gone, but many of the 
policies are saying remain, and even more of their consequences linger.  
 
Eva Martin Blythe, 7 Temple Street, Cambridge. Spoke in support of the Affordable Housing 
Overlay. The city needs for more quality, affordable multi-family housing.  The inequalities 
between neighborhoods are the result of decades of economic power and control. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 5 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

July 8, 2020 

Susan Schlesinger, 34 Glenwood Avenue in Cambridge port. She is a member of the Affordable 
Housing Trust Fund board. She urged the city council to act quickly on the passage of the 
Affordable Housing overlay. She asked the council to pass this ordinance in substantially the 
same form as its been presented tonight. She reminded the council that the planning board 
reviewed the affordable housing Overlay and sent its approval of the ordinance to the council. 
Last year, there was a poll where a majority of respondents were in favor of the affordable 
housing overlay.  
 
Dan Eisner, 6 Bristol Street. The city's zoning is a quintessential example of systemic racism. 
Exclusionary zoning was established about a century ago to ensure that certain neighborhoods 
would remain exclusive, wealthy and racially homogenous. To this very day, Cambridge is 
highly segregated because these laws demand it. It leads to highly disparate life outcomes. The 
affordable housing overlay is a step toward rectifying these injustices and fixing this historical 
wrong. It has become nearly impossible to build affordable housing in Cambridge, due to not 
only restrictive zoning, but also because of the high cost of acquiring land, the overlay will make 
building affordable housing much more financially feasible. This is why it is essential that the 
overlay not be amended further, and why it must be passed as is. 
 
Cathleen Higgins, 345 Norfolk Street in Cambridge. She spoke in support of the affordable 
housing Overlay. The AHO is about righting the wrongs of racist zoning policies that have 
resulted in racially segregated neighborhoods in Cambridge.  
 
Bill Boehm, 18 Laurel Street. Spoke in favor of passing the affordable housing overlay. Nearly 
all public justifications of zoning rests on the constitutionally permissible goals of protecting the 
health safety, morals and general welfare. But zones established into these goals have become 
more restrictive without substantial justification of the health or safety benefits of lower density. 
And across Cambridge's history, the most restrictive zones have unfailingly remained the whitest 
and wealthiest in the city. The affordable housing overlay is a modest step in the right direction. 
It will produce additional units of affordable housing while beginning to redress a systematic, 
systemic racist structure. 
 
Gabe Colombo, 16 Chauncy Street, architecture graduate student at Harvard. Strongly supports 
the ordination of the affordable housing loan overlay and much more action to encourage and 
increase the amount of affordable housing citywide. Segregation was never an accident; single 
family zoning and apartment bans began as racist tools to deny African Americans and other 
people of color access to housing and create exclusive white enclaves. The areas of Cambridge 
that have the most restrictive apartment bans have the lowest number of affordable housing units 
and these also happened to be the places that have been historically zoned most restrictive and 
have the fewest black residents in the city. He supports passing the AHO. He asked the council 
to consider lowering the 80% AMI cap for affordable housing occupancy in at least some 
instances. 
 
Jonathan Behrens, 115 Hampshire Street. Strongly supports the affordable housing overlay. 
November's election gave a clear mandate in support of the AHO. He urged the council to pass 
the affordable housing overlay rapidly and without compromising it with amendments.  
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 6 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

July 8, 2020 

Alexander Roederer, 119 Harvard Street. The committee should quickly pass the affordable 
housing overlay as a modest first step toward creating more affordable housing in our city. Rent 
in Cambridge is really high. Some people have decided to leave Massachusetts altogether and 
relocate. The affordable housing overlay is a good first step and it should be passed as quickly as 
possible without more amendments. This is an issue of fairness, of environmental prudence and 
it just makes good economic sense for Cambridge. 
 
Lori Thomas, 111 Magazine Street. Urged the council to pass the affordable housing overlay as 
quickly as possible without further amendment. 
 
Luis Mejias, 18 Plymouth Street. The barriers put in place that perpetuate the inequities and 
racism of redlining need to be done away with; single family zoning or rather bans on 
multifamily housing is just another form of redlining both racial and economic. Urged committee 
to move the affordable housing overlay forward. 
 
Pawel Latawiec, 2 Earhart Street. Spoke in support of the affordable housing overlay. A key 
component will be to reduce the soft costs of affordable housing construction. According to the 
linkage Nexus study, these make up over 22% of total development costs a good portion of these 
costs, which the AHO can diminish, go toward lawyers, consultants and banks.  
 
Charles Franklin, 162 Hampshire Street. Urged committee to move the affordable housing 
overlay forward to the council with a favorable recommendation. Cambridge does not need more 
luxury single family homes in the heart of the city. He would also like to see the income range 
expanded both up and down and with mixed income requirements so that everyone can afford to 
live here. 
 
Richard Krushnic, 20 Oak Street. He stated that the AHO is the best possible next step that the 
city can take to create more affordable housing. He recommended adding a 20% requirement for 
homeownership units.  He recommended a 20% requirement for three-bedroom units or larger.  
 
Suzanne Blier, 5 Fuller Place. Sher strongly supports ending zoning for single family homes 
throughout the city. She stated that the city needs to fund people to be able to buy their homes.  
 
Tina Alu, 113 and a half pleasant Street. She spoke in support of the affordable housing overlay. 
One definition of equity is described as fairness in procedures, processes and the distribution of 
resources. Equity exists when disparities in the outcomes experienced by historically 
underrepresented populations have been eliminated. Current zoning laws make housing more 
segregated and less affordable. Although prohibiting multifamily and townhouse development in 
certain areas of the city and inflexible standards regarding height, setbacks and parking don't 
explicitly discriminate by race. They effectively exclude families of colors and those with low in 
mind incomes from entire neighborhoods in the city. Areas that were zoned the most restrictively 
in Cambridge is 1943 rezoning have dramatically fewer black residents than the rest of the city 
today. The neighborhoods which have the least restrictive bans on new housing continue to be 
the most racially diverse. The overlay would be an important step in achieving equity.  
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 7 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

July 8, 2020 

Jim Stockard, 141 Oxford Street, is a member of the Affordable Housing Trust Fund. A primary 
goal for the city is to increase the number of homes for people of modest means.  The housing 
authority has a waiting list of thousands of people. The most recent affordable housing 
development had ten  applications for every apartment available. The affordable housing overlay 
is a very good next step. Affordable housing developers have a very hard time acquiring property 
on which to provide these homes.  He strongly urged the committee to pass the affordable 
housing overlay.  
 
George Metzger, 90 Antrim Street. The affordable housing overlay petition corrects patterns of 
development that denied lower income people and people of color from choice and where they 
are not able to live in Cambridge. A pattern of racial and economic alignment has denied black 
and brown people an equal opportunity to live in a neighborhood of their choice. As a 
community, we need this council to adopt this overlay.  
 
Jessica Schmidt, a resident of Cambridge for over 15 years and lives at 17 Laurel Street. Making 
housing more accessible to people can only benefit the community. She is in favor of affordable 
housing. 
 
Burhan Azeem, 35 Speridakis Terrace. We are now looking at a time when perhaps a third of 
renters are not able to pay rent. We have massive unemployment and perhaps are heading into a 
great depression and certainly a great recession. Now is not the time to take slow action. Over 
this year City Hall has passed many bills that have been difficult to pass, but we know we needed 
to get them done. This is another bill that we need to get done and we need to get it done soon.  
 
Jessica Sheehan, 99 Norfolk Street. She spoke in support of passage of the affordable housing 
overlay. The overlay will not solve the housing crisis. The crisis extends well beyond Cambridge 
and was over a half century in the making from the racist redlining maps that still look 
uncomfortably similar to our city's current zoning.  No one piece of legislation is going to undo 
that damage and certainly not overnight. The overlay is a modest step in the right direction. 
 
Aaron Rosenthal, 88 Hancock Street. Affordable housing is one of the most important issues 
facing the city. He wants the city to pass the affordable housing overlay as a first step to 
addressing the housing crisis in Cambridge. Housing is a fundamental problem in the city, which 
exacerbates issues our community is facing discrimination, inequality, homelessness, education 
and climate change just to name a few. Currently, the price of housing largely restricts 
Cambridge to the wealthiest individuals. The affordable housing overlay would help to build 
more apartment buildings.   
 
Nancy Alach, 346 concord avenue in West Cambridge. Spoke in favor of the affordable housing 
overlay. The overlay is an important next step to starting to address the affordable housing crisis 
in Cambridge.  
 
Lauren Curry, 3 Concord Avenue.  Spoke in favor of the overlay in order to provide housing for 
many waiting families. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 8 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

July 8, 2020 

Jean Hannon, 7 Woodrow Wilson Court, spoke in support of the affordable housing overlay 
zoning petition. She was born and raised in Cambridge but can only afford to live here because 
she found an affordable unit.  
 
Josh Cohen, 276 Huron Avenue, is a developer of affordable housing across the Northeast. He 
explained that affordable aousing is driven by the requirements of his funders. Affordable 
housing meets a need that the conventional real estate markets do not meet. Because below 
market, affordable rents do not satisfy the economic return needs of investors affordable 
developers need public funding.  The AHO will unleash innovation and transfer tremendous 
power to the City of Cambridge to guide affordable housing through its funding mechanisms. 
With the AHO local affordable housing developers will be pursuing exciting, innovative, socially 
conscious, environmentally forward-thinking developments in every neighborhood across the 
city.  
 
Teresa Cardosi, 7 Woodrow Wilson Court. A lot of  time was already put into negotiations for 
the modifications to the original 100% affordable housing overlay plan. And as no plan is ever 
perfect, there will most likely be more requests for changes to the hundred percent affordable 
house Housing overlay. We cannot afford to wait any longer during this period of COVID-19, in 
which many people are without income, more and more residents will be displaced once the 
eviction moratorium is lifted. without additional affordable housing the rate of income equal 
inequality, which is already high will surge because only those with higher incomes will be able 
to afford to live in Cambridge.  
 
Florrie Darwin, 7 Follen Street, and I'm a member of the Affordable Housing trusts and I've been 
working on affordable housing issues in Cambridge for over 25 years. And I really thrilled to 
hear all the support that my co Kenta bridges have been calling in and voicing for the affordable 
housing overlay. I agree with the all the important reasons for passing it and for passing it very 
quickly. It's been hanging around and it's been massaged and tweaked for a long time and it's in 
good shape now. The affordable housing is always at the top of the list of major concerns for the 
City of Cambridge. And although we can't change the real estate market and the direction that it's 
heading in, we can there there's many leavers at our desk. buzzle to make it possible to develop 
more affordable housing. And we've done a huge job on that so far in Cambridge, and this will 
be a very important lever to continue making progress in that direction. 
 
Kavish Gandhi, 115 Hampshire Street, spoke in favor of the affordable housing overlay. These 
changes to zoning standards and the permitting process will allow nonprofit affordable 
developers to be much more competitive for new properties. He supports bolder, faster action for 
much, much more than just the affordable housing overlay. It is shameful that Massachusetts 
homeless population has increased by over 30% in the last 10 years and similarly that Cambridge 
point in population has increased by almost 15% since 2012. And study after study has shown 
that rising housing prices are the strongest drivers of this change. With the threat of hundreds or 
thousands or hundreds of 10s of thousands of evictions looming due to the financial burden of 
the pandemic. This is the time for strong action to build more affordable housing and to embrace 
housing for solutions. We cannot continue to remain complacent and treat the disgrace of 
homelessness and rent burdened ship as the status quo.  
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 9 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

July 8, 2020 

Noah Sawyer,1035 Cambridge Street, real estate for Just-A-Start, one of Cambridge's nonprofit 
affordable housing developers. Spoke in support for the overlay. There have been several 
properties over the last few years where that Just-A-Start made what they thought were 
aggressive offers on and were outbid by developers looking to build luxury housing.  
 
Gilberte Houbart, 51 Chilton Street in Cambridge. The city has lost about 18% of the tree canopy 
in the past 10 years. Trees in the cities are critical to health, both physical and mental. Tree 
protection should never be left to the discretion of the developers as is the case in the current 
proposal. When you look at an aerial view of Cambridge, it is very clear that West Cambridge 
has most of the canopy in the City.  
 
Justin Saif, 259 Hurley Street. Spoke in support of the affordable housing overlay. The 
affordable housing overlay is a great first step to address the housing crisis in Cambridge. 
Housing prices have risen astronomically in recent years, forcing many Cambridge residents to 
move elsewhere. Survey data shows that the housing crisis is by far the number one concern of 
Cambridge residents and we have done far too little to address that concern. It will provide for 
opportunities to build affordable housing in all parts of Cambridge, including parts of 
Cambridge, where there is little to no affordable housing. The affordable housing overlay does 
not go far enough and should allow larger buildings in the current limits, particularly if any of 
these additional limits are adopted.  
 
Fritz Donovan, 42 Irving Street. The key to quick housing for a lot of people is density. Density 
now is lethal. Even an elevator in a high rise is lethal. We have a huge responsibility on the 
shoulders of our nine councillors to put together an affordable housing overlay that serves all the 
key points. 
 
Saul Tannenbaum, 16 Cottage Street. Spoke in support of the affordable housing overlay. This 
ordinance does not go far enough to undo the legacy of race and class that underlies the land use 
patterns that define Cambridge. While passing this ordinance will be an achievement of which 
the city should be proud, it is only a first step.  
 
Aaron Homer, 90 Grozier Road. This is a chance to make progress on two of the most critical 
problems of our time; climate change and ongoing racial inequities and housing. Urged the 
council to pass the overlay quickly and without amendments.  
 
Jacquelyn Fahey Sandell, 8 Clinton Street in Cambridge. She supports affordable housing but 
want developers to abide by current height and setback rules. The pictures that were shown of 
the unit on Bigelow and the Auburn court, are great examples of affordable housing that can 
work within the city and within the neighborhoods and keep the feel of the neighborhood. The 
proposed regulation allows many buildings to go up by 20 feet or more, which is extremely high, 
and not just a story here and there. 
 
Kathleen Moore, 9 Doane Street, asked council to move forward quickly with the affordable 
housing Overlay . 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 10 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

July 8, 2020 

Councillor Marc McGovern moved to close public comment and recess this meeting to a date to 
be announced. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone requested  that community development does a drawing of what the 
impact will be in a district a since the focus is seems to be West Cambridge. 
 

Councillor  McGovern’s  motion  to  close  public  comment  passed  by  the 
following roll call vote: 
 
Yeas: 
Councillor Carlone, Councillor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor 
Nolan,  Councillor  Siddiqui,  Councillor  Simmons,  Councillor  Sobrinho-
Wheeler and Councillor Zondervan 
 
Absent: 
Councillor Toomey 

 
Councillor McGovern withdrew his motion to recess the meeting. 
 
Vice Mayor Mallon requested that the community development department provide some 
illustrations. She has questions about the dimensional standards. She wanted visual explanation 
of the difference between a parcel line versus a district line.  
 
Councillor Nolan asked the CDD provide a best estimate of the number of units that the AHO 
will provide city wide and how they would be distributed across neighborhoods.  She was also 
interested in examples of projects that the city has lost in the past. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  pointed out that the council debated over 60 Amendments last term, 
of which 46 were adopted. There will not be one hundred percent agreement on everything in the 
ordinance.  
 
Councillor E. Dennis Simmons requested that the Committee set a deadline for councillors to 
submit their questions about the AHO ahead of the next meeting. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui stated that the housing liaison would be meeting through the summer on 
the overlapping issue of housing instability 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone stated that if any councillor have question that they would like 
answered by CDD to please send them by email to the chair and the clerk by July 17th at 5:00 
PM. 
 

A motion by Councillor Marc McGovern to recess the meeting passed by 
the following roll call vote: 
  
Yeas: 

City of Cambridge 

Page 11 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

July 8, 2020 

Councillor Carlone, Councillor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor 
Nolan,  Councillor  Siddiqui,  Councillor  Simmons,  Councillor  Sobrinho-
Wheeler and Councillor Zondervan 
 
Absent: 
Councillor Toomey 

 
 
 
 

1.  100%  Affordable  Housing  Overlay  Zoning  Petition  2020.    REFERRED  TO  ORDINANCE 

COMMITTEE IN COUNCIL JUNE 10, 2020 

RESULT: 

NO ACTION TAKEN 

Next: 8/19/2020 5:00 PM 

2.  A  presentation  was  received  from  Councillor  McGovern  regarding  the  Affordable  Housing 

Ordinance. 

RESULT: 

PLACED ON FILE 

Affordable Housing Ordinance. 

RESULT: 

PLACED ON FILE 

3.  A  presentation  was  received  from  the  Community  Development  Department  regarding  the 

City of Cambridge 

Page 12 

  

