ORDINANCE COMMITTEE 
 

COMMITTTEE MEETING 

~ MINUTES ~ 

  Wednesday, February 12, 2020 

5:30 PM 

Sullivan Chamber 

  Call to Order 

Attendee Name 
Dennis J. Carlone 

Alanna Mallon 

Marc C. McGovern 

Patricia Nolan 

Sumbul Siddiqui 

E. Denise Simmons 

Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler 

Timothy J. Toomey 

Quinton Zondervan 

 

 

Present 

Absent 

Arrived 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Late 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5:35 PM 

5:40 PM 

The Ordinance Committee will meet for a hearing on an order to amend section 11.202(b) of the 
zoning ordinance 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  00:14 
Good evening, everyone. A quorum of the Ordinance committee being present. I call tonight's 
meeting to order. The call of the meeting: The ordinance committee will meet for a hearing on 
an order to amend section 11.202 B of the zoning ordinance. We are being audio, and I believe 
we're on TV, audio and video recorded. Thank you everyone for being here. Real quickly, we're 
joined by my co-chair on the Ordinance committee Councillor Carlone, Mayor Siddiqui, Vice 
Mayor Mallon, Councillor Nolan, Councillor Zondervan and Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  01:02 
Just to sort of, sort of frame this a little bit this is a... this meeting is coming from a policy order 
that was filed. Councillor Zondervan was the lead, the lead sponsor to raise the current linkage 
fee to $19 and, and 10 cents per square foot. This is not the end of this conversation. We, when 
we heard from CDD previously, there is still a process that we need to go through to address 
the, the report itself and sort of where we're going to end up based on that report. But during 
that conversation, it became clear that we could take this interim step of raising the fee by a 
couple dollars, while we are moving forward and doing that other work. So, I don't want anyone 
to think that this is the end of this conversation. In fact, that is actually just the beginning of this 
conversation. And this is something that we felt that we could do quickly to try and generate 
more funds while this slightly longer process is going on. So, I don't want folks to, you know, to 
feel that this is the end game here. We are going to hear from the city that they're going to do a 
quick presentation on the Nexus study, sort of in general, just to frame kind of where we are, but 
then, and then we will move on to questions, comments and public comment. So, with that, Ms. 
Farooq, you got, you got the mic. 
 
Iram Farooq, Assistant City Manager for Community Development  02:50 
Thank, thank you, Mr. Chair. 

City of Cambridge 

Page 1 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

February 12, 2020 

 
Iram Farooq, Assistant City Manager for Community Development  02:53 
I just wanted to mention that today, we have our housing team who worked on the Nexus study. 
Chris Cotter, Housing Director, and in Linda Prosnitz, who is our Housing Planner, managing 
the process we thought it would be helpful opportunity for the council to hear from our 
consultant, Karl Seidman as well, just to, to be able to expound a little bit on what are the... what 
was the process and the findings of the study. Of course, we have Jeff Roberts and Arthur 
Goldberg from the Law department as well. And last night, the planning board had their hearing 
on this, this zoning petition and made a positive recommendation on it with the further 
invocation to the council to think about the... whatever was the highest possible amount that 
could be ultimately established, because they did feel like an increase was good. They felt that 
this was probably the small increase, and particularly, particularly given that it doesn't include 
the $1 a year escalator that is recommended by the study. So, I'll leave it at that. Give it over 
to... 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  04:14 
Let me interrupt for just one... just so because you know the call... And what we're amending is 
specific to the $19 and 10 cents. So just for my colleagues to when, when we hear this, we're 
really, I'm hoping that we don't get into a real in-depth conversation about the Nexus study 
specifically, because that's not really what the call of the meeting is. That and I want to make 
sure we stick to the call. So, Councillor Nolan. 
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan  04:15 
Thank you just a point of information to repeat I believe what you said early, which is there will 
be relatively soon at another meeting of the Committee on the Nexus study, which means that 
conversation will happen and it can be full-fledged and comprehensive This, therefore will be 
limited and can be limited to this without any. Okay. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  05:04 
Correct. Yes, I also, you know, if we didn't... if we wanted to have the conversation and what the 
whole next study it would have been advertised that way. We might have had more people, I 
think it's important that we, you know, stick to the call as the call is. So, but it is also important to 
understand the big picture as to why we're taking this interim step. But I just in terms of 
questions, let's try to keep the questions to the $19 and 10 cents and not get too deep in the 
weeds of the report since that's not what the call is. 
 
Iram Farooq, Assistant City Manager for Community Development  05:32 
So, in the interest of time, then maybe we just get Carl Seidman to do the presentation and then 
kick off the conference discussion if that's the will of the council. Thank you. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  05:42 
Sounds good. 
 
Karl F. Seidman, Consultant  05:59 
Thank you, city council members. I'll try and be quick, I realize you don't want to get into the full 
details of the study. But, you know, I know you're all familiar with the incentives zoning 
ordinance, established in 1988, amended in 2015 currently has a fee of $17 and 10 cents per 
square foot on all non-residential development over 30,000 square feet. You're also probably 
familiar with the 2015 Amendment, which raised the fee significantly and also expanded the 
application of the housing contributions to you know, all non-residential development essentially 
not tied to specific special permits. And just to show you the impact of those amendments, they 

City of Cambridge 

Page 2 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

February 12, 2020 

have significantly increased the revenue. It's projected to bring in over $5.7 million a year over 
the next five years compared to, you know, something on the order of 5% of that in prior years. 
So, it has had the desired impact. In terms of this particular study. We analyze development and 
employment trends and impact since that's ultimately what's generating the impacts. The 
contribution is designed to address, looked at an option for job contributions and then made 
recommendations on a new contribution rates and policy changes. Just to quickly give you an 
overview of the recommendations, recommending to raise the current housing contribution rate 
by $6 through a $2 increase in an additional dollar increments, maintain a single city wide rate 
but also change the time period for the policy review from three years to five years since that 
seems to be two shorter time period to really observe impacts, and also recommending that in 
lieu of the jobs contribution, you might look to meet the housing, the job training needs through 
other funding sources that could come into play more quickly.  
 
Karl F. Seidman, Consultant  08:24 
So, I won't go into this. It's in the report, there's a very prescribed methodology that was used to 
estimate the impact of new development on affordable housing demand and the acquired 
subsidy. And just to summarize some of the key points. we're estimating that development over 
the next 10 years will be on the level of 5.8 million square feet and generate almost 15,000 jobs. 
And these jobs will create a demand for 722 units of new affordable housing across low income, 
moderate and middle income. And then working with the city staff, we made a number of 
assumptions about how that would break down between low income, moderate income, middle 
income ownership and rental units. And that's way down in this chart and in the report. And 
then, based on that need for housing, we estimated the required subsidy. So, to build the 
necessary rental housing, it would cost $284 million. The actual income that residents could 
contribute will only provide a little less than $43 million of capital to pay for those costs. So, 
there's a need for subsidy of $240 million to build 471 rental units. On the ownership side, the 
building the 251 ownership units would cost $157 million. The income that buyers could provide 
would cover $75 million of that so there'd be a required subsidy of a little more than $92 million. 
So, we add those together, we have a total development subsidy that's needed of $322.8 
million. When we divide that by the expected level of new development, we get into a required 
subsidy per square foot $55 and 27 cents. However, we made some adjustment to that to reflect 
the fact that the Affordable Housing Trust has typically not covered the full subsidy. Other 
sources of funding of help pay for affordable housing. So based on recent experience, we apply 
Housing Trust Fund providing 43% of the subsidy for rental projects for low- and moderate-
income residents. 73% of the subsidy for middle income rental and 100% of the subsidy for 
ownership housing.  
 
Karl F. Seidman, Consultant  11:15 
So, based on those figures and the ability to bring in another subsidy, we came to a final 
conclusion that housing contribution fee could be $33 and 34 cents. Let me talk briefly now 
about the job contribution. Since this is a new policy area, I just wanted to talk about the sort of 
rational Nexus for having a job contribution. And the basic logic here is that new development 
will create employment opportunities for Cambridge residents. But many residents may not be 
able to access those opportunities without education and training services and there may similar 
to housing the funding gap to provide those services and if there's a funding gap, then a job 
contribution is warranted. So, since the city doesn't currently have a policy of resident 
employment for new development, we sort of looked at this across a range of goals, from 10% 
to 50% of the new jobs at these development projects going to city residents. And we focused 
really on the jobs that would be accessible to lower moderate-income residents, the low and 
middle skill jobs as opposed to jobs that require a college education and pay a higher wage. So, 
we estimated that at 5900, low and middle skill jobs over 10 years that sort of represents the 

City of Cambridge 

Page 3 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

February 12, 2020 

training demand. If your resident goal is 10%, you want to train 593 people for those jobs at 
40%. You're going to train 2373 people for jobs. So that's sort of the demand side of 
occupational training. And then we looked at the supply side from all these providers who 
provide training to Cambridge residents and how many Cambridge residents do they train 
during the year. And that indicated that the current training system is training somewhere 
between 1080 and 1300 Cambridge residents over a 10-year period, and that's so that's the 
supply side of the equation. We also looked at the potential need or gap for funding for adult 
basic education and ESLL. And our conclusion there was that existing services are essentially 
meeting that need, we don't need to provide additional funding for that. So the final figures we 
came up with when we compare the demand with the existing supply, there is a funding gap 
once you get to a policy goal of employing 30% of Cambridge residents in the new jobs, and the 
amount of funding you need would be about between $4.7 million and $8.8 million dependent 
upon the goal and the level of supply. So that would translate into a housing contribution fee of 
between 82 cents and $1 and 51 cents. 
 
Karl F. Seidman, Consultant  14:32 
So, I'd say we also did work in a number of policy options such as changing the size threshold, 
varying the contribution rate, or use varying the contribution rate by geography. I think 
ultimately, the recommendation was to sort of stay with the existing policy environment. There 
are not many projects under the 30,000 square foot size threshold so there's not much impact in 
changing that. While impacts vary by use, the administrative complexity and the difficulty of 
knowing for sure how changes might, how uses might change over time argue for keeping a 
uniform rate by use. And there is a big difference between rents in West Cambridge and East 
Cambridge. But there was some concern of creating a sort of boundary where fees will be 
different, could have unintended consequences in terms of development. So, in terms of some 
context for setting your fee, this table summarizes that the fees and in other cities locally, 
Cambridge has the highest fee by a significant margin. It's still lower, at some level to places like 
Seattle and San Francisco, which on some level, you might think of as, as competitive cities to 
Cambridge for some of the industry's you're attracting. And then lastly, we gave some 
consideration to what impact the $33 and 34 cent fee could have on Cambridge's desirability, 
competitiveness as a location. And it would have an impact on commercial rents, increasing 
them by some... between two and a half to 4.3%. If the fee was paid totally by developers’ 
equity and not passed on to tenants, it could reduce returns by as much as 100 basis points. 
And I think the other consideration for Cambridge is you have, certainly East Cambridge has the 
highest rents in the region. And a large increase in the fee, you know, will further potentially 
impact those rents and, and make you know, Boston or some of your other locations particularly 
more attractive, and I think West Cambridge in particular, that could be a concern since your 
rents are considerably higher than some of the competing suburbs. So, I think these factors led 
me to recommend a final fee that's less than the 33, 34. And to come up with a fee that, you 
know, in the mid-20s, that would be implemented over time so that it's predictable and 
developers could plan for it. So, I'll stop there. I went through that quickly. I know, this really isn't 
the focus of your meeting. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  17:32 
Thank you. Way to summarize 100-page report in 15 minutes. So again, the call of this meeting 
is really about this interim increase to $19 and 10 cents. That was a policy order that was... 
Councillor Zondervan was the lead sponsor. I will... Councillor Zondervan do you want to talk 
about that order and why you filed? 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  17:59 

City of Cambridge 

Page 4 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

February 12, 2020 

Thank you, Mr. Chair and thank you for the presentation. So essentially, we reconstructed the 
timeline a little bit. Mayor Siddiqui in February 2018 filed a policy order requesting a timeline for 
this study that we just saw. And in March, we were told that it would be completed... would be 
initiated fall of 2018 and will take about six to eight months and ultimately, it was not delivered 
until December 2019. So, at that time in December, when we received the report, there had not 
been an update to the linkage fee other than the CPI adjustment since September 2018. So, we 
introduced this petition to... based on the recommendations, immediately increase it by $2. Just 
as recommended in the report. And so that petition is in front of us now. There's clearly appetite, 
I think in the community and on this council to increase it even further. And even in this report, 
that's noted. And personally, I would prefer that we go at least to the $34, if not, all the way to 
the $55 or higher. You know, it's, I mean, I appreciate this analysis and this report, but I don't 
think it really accounts for the full impact of commercial development in terms of gentrification 
and displacement that it causes in our city. So, it's really important that we get this right and that 
we mitigate those impacts. So that will take us some time to process this report and figure out 
what the right answer is. And so, the intent of this petition was to just very quickly increase it by 
a fairly non-controversial amount of $2, which would generate hundreds of thousands of dollars 
for affordable housing construction projects while we deliberate and the ultimate fee schedule. I 
do want to touch briefly on the planning board hearing last night, because the... first of all, 
there's different language that I think CDD proposed, as compared to the original policy order 
still achieve the same purpose. It's just textually different. So, I asked Dan to print out copies for 
everybody. So, we have that before us because I think we want to vote on that text rather than 
the original policy order. And then there was some discussion about whether we could increase 
it again, within three years. If we increase it now. And I had some discussion with the law 
department, and we can basically interpret that ruling as applying retroactively. And so, we can 
modify the, the ordinance and the fee at the same time when we're ready to do so. So, I hope 
we can pass this with a favorable recommendation and, and then get into the deeper discussion 
on what it should ultimately be. And one more thing is that we would also want to amend the 
date upon ordination so that it takes effect when we ordained it, because right now it says 
January 28. So probably it will be ordained in early March. So, we would just change the date at 
that time. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  22:01 
Okay, thank you, Councillor. So again, to my colleagues any, again, the call the meaning was to 
go to the $19 and 10 cents. I do have a... as you are doing your presentation, there were a lot of 
questions I had about the bigger picture, certainly around the job creation piece to I've been 
working with some folks I won't name at the moment because we don't have an agreement, but 
on putting money towards free... making Community College free for graduates of our high 
school. And Boston does that and part of the way Boston funds it is through their linkage fee. 
And so, you know, I'm curious as to... I have a lot of questions about that, because I think that's, 
you know, would be something that would be really beneficial and how we would do that, but I'm 
going to hold off on that until the later date. So, are there questions from the council? Councillor 
Nolan. 
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan  23:03 
Thank you. I understand we are just focused on this one section. And based on what Councillor 
Zondervan said it sounds like we might need to make sure that the language is exactly what the 
memo of the CDD is. I'm just curious as to whether we can amend it right now, understanding 
that is $2. But at least right now, instead of $19, and 10 cents to $20 and 10 cents to include an 
extra dollar right now, we are in the hottest time of development right now, whatever projects 
that can apply to the sooner the better. I know that, which we all know, that when the rate was 
raised just a few years ago, it clearly didn't have a, one iota of impact on the amount of 

City of Cambridge 

Page 5 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

February 12, 2020 

development that happened in the city so that the sooner that we can get to a greater amount of 
linkage fees in my mind is the better and I recognize there's a range of opportunity for us in the 
future to change it, but it seems to me that I would like us to raise it even more, especially that it 
sounded like the planning board last night suggested that it could go up even higher than just 
the $2. So, I'd be curious as to if they had a specific recommendation for more than this $2 and 
whether we couldn't do it. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  24:22 
Mr. Roberts? 
 
Jeffrey Roberts, Director of Zoning and Development  24:24 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'll start just to summarize the planning board recommendation. They... I 
believe planning board expressed that they understood the intent of the city council to make the 
change to this rate now ultimately, expressing the opinion that they, they believe the rate should 
be as high as it's reasonable, deemed reasonable by the City Council to, to make it but also 
acknowledging the purpose of this effort is to establish a, an immediate increase and then 
continue to discuss future increases at some future time. I would caution that there is a zoning 
petition before the city council and ordinarily, there may be question... with any zoning petition, 
any amendments that are made would need to remain within the scope and it'll be the same, 
substantially the same as what was originally advertised as the zoning petition. So I would 
generally defer to my colleagues at the law department for advice on whether a change such as 
an amendment that would increase the rate during the hearing process would be seen as 
remaining within the bounds of the original petition or whether it might be considered something 
that would need to be then re-advertised for new hearings. 
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan  26:07 
Can we get that legal? Not right now? 
 
Arthur Goldberg, Deputy City Solicitor  26:11 
Mr. Chair, I think raising the $19 and 10 cents $1 would be within the original petition. I don't 
think that is such a dramatic change from what was advertised as to require a whole new 
process. 
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan  26:31 
Okay, and I propose that... I'm not sure how to propose it. But if I'd love to. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  26:38 
So Councillor Nolan is making an amendment to raise the fee to $20 and 10 cents per square 
foot. Discussion? Councillor Simmons. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  26:50 
I thank you. I just want to be clear, because we just got the planning board report and we've not 
read it yet. So, I guess my question is, and I think my colleague spoke to, but I wasn't trying to 
quite grasp the answer. So, if we went to $22 or say $24, would we be able within the 
discussion on the incentives zoning... Within that discussion, will we be able to still if there was 
an interest to go higher?  I mean, I think it was 30... between 34 and 50. I don't have it in front of 
me. So, I just want to be sure what we do now. One does not lock us into doing something when 
we have a fuller discussion. And then I and then again to you, Mr. Chair. Did you say you 
believe or did not believe that if we did that, did vote to change it tonight. We, we could do that, 
or we could not do that because we are making some change that needed to be advertised. I 
wasn't clear. I just wanted to be sure about that. 

City of Cambridge 

Page 6 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

February 12, 2020 

 
Arthur Goldberg, Deputy City Solicitor  28:01 
Through you, Mr. Chair.  Gesundheit. I said that I believed you could go up to $20 and 10 cents 
without having to advertise this petition.  
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  28:18 
Okay. And then still in the discussion. Excuse me, through you Mr. Chair. And then if we ask me 
later, look at the fuller document, have a longer conversation about the workforce contribution 
and all those other little nuances. And the council's felt that maybe we should go up a little 
higher, we'd still be able to do that? 
 
Arthur Goldberg, Deputy City Solicitor  28:42 
I believe you could do that. Yes, because this that would be a separate zoning petition, and 
separately advertised and as Councillor Zondervan pointed out that to the extent there's less 
language in the ordinance now about there has to be a study no less than every three years 
from the previous amendment of the rate. To the extent that language was seen as limiting what 
the council could do its ordinance language so it can be amended by the Council, if the council 
so chooses. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  29:23 
And then my last question is more to my colleagues. So, I believe my colleague said 21 or 28? 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  29:30 
Twenty. 
 
Councillor E. Denise Simmons  29:31 
Twenty. And I just wanted to hear from the rest of my colleagues. Is that about right? Is it still 
too low did we want to make it higher? So, before I sort of, if you will indulge your colleagues, 
before we kind of just jump into the $21 bandwagon, onto that bandwagon. I'm interested in 
hearing a little bit more from my esteemed colleagues, where they are on that. So, with that, Mr. 
Chair, I yield the floor. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  30:00 
Pleasure of the Council? Councillor Carlone. 
 
Councillor Dennis Carlone  30:06 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think the fear that Mr. Seidman mentioned about it affecting labs and 
offices in particular in West Cambridge in Alewife area actually doesn't bother me because I 
act... I believe we're over... We're encouraging too much of that kind of development, traffic-
oriented development. If you look at the rents in East Cambridge, yeah, this might be average, 
but we're hearing rents over $100 a foot in new buildings. And the developer, I think, and we 
have an expert here, a couple experts here, will get that back over time and then some. So, I'm 
fine with it at 20. But if we want to entertain more, I think that's fine too. But the real, the real 
issue is what are we going to do in the next phase of this analysis? And this is a holding pattern 
that Councillor Zondervan brought forth that makes all the sense in the world, incrementally, 
incrementally increasing it is Councillor Nolan has suggested, I'm all for and knowing the 
market, as I do, certainly in East Cambridge, knowing the market. This will have absolutely 
minimal impact. I agree West Cambridge might be affected but as I said earlier, I think we're 
over developing the office and lab market in West Cambridge any way, given the transportation 
available. Thanks Mr. Chair. 
 

City of Cambridge 

Page 7 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

February 12, 2020 

Mayor Marc McGovern  32:01 
Mayor Siddiqui. 
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui  32:02 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think Mr. Roberts mentioned this earlier. Going back to the first 
paragraph on page two, I assume this was written by Mr. Roberts, but it says, I don't know who 
wrote it. But note that the text changes below are intended only to establish a new rate of 19.10 
with ongoing adjustments made for CPI but without establishing any other future rate increases, 
because the petition does not explicitly state whether such increases are intended. It seems that 
to clarify Mr. Solicitor that you think it would be okay beyond 19.10 and if that is the case, it 
contradicts his language. But I think going to 20 that seems reasonable to me. With the... I think 
expectation a lot of us had that we, you know, we have a lot of questions. We do want to think 
about what that amount is. And that will require I think, some further discussion. I haven't read 
the report in a while and so I wasn't prepared to really go through and think about those 
numbers and think about that. I don't think any of us were, so I think I'm trying to 20, I think 
concert of Simmons asked. I'm fine with it. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  33:29 
Thank you. Pleasure of the Council? Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler. 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler  33:31 
Thank you. I would support Councillor Nolan's suggestion to go to $20.10 and which is dollar 
higher than was proposed and ultimately, I think we need to go much higher than that. I think 
we're all on the same page about that. And one of the... I had two questions. One was about the 
for... $1 annual increases and setting that tonight. I'm just a little confused if we all agree we're 
going to go and set it higher why we're deciding that tonight if it's just in case a meteor hits that 
we, we have that side or if there's some other reason there. And then the other question was 
about one of the slides in the presentation. It seems like all the other metropolitan areas outside 
Boston, break linkage down by zone or by use. And I'm just curious if there are different 
demographic or economic factors that go into that or why that isn't prevalent in Boston.  
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  34:22 
Who wants it? 
 
Arthur Goldberg, Deputy City Solicitor  34:23 
I could take part of it. Mr. Chair. I think if the council were tonight to go beyond the one year, 
the, the one change to the 19.10. If you were to go to other years, I think that would require 
another petition. And another advertised hearing, so I think that would go beyond what's before 
you tonight. 
 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler  34:50 
If I could just follow up, I just think I'm not sure why we're including annual increases if the idea 
is to in the next couple weeks... Is that not part of the... It's not what we're considering tonight 
Okay, great. Thank you. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  35:03 
Pleasure of the Council? Councillor Zondervan. 
 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan  35:08 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. I feel like I'm in an auction. I think we should go as high as, as we can. 
But I think tonight, we should probably, I mean, I only propose $2 because I figured that will be 

City of Cambridge 

Page 8 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

February 12, 2020 

quick and easy and non-controversial. And then we would buy ourselves enough time to have 
the deeper discussion about where it should ultimately end up. So, I think, you know, if there's 
appetite to go to 20, then by all means, let's do that. And then [sic] let's advance the petition and 
have the deeper discussion. I think we should probably vote first to adopt the amendments 
proposed by CDD and then amend it further to $20 and 10 cents. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  35:58 
So, just my, for my $2 and 10 cents in this comments. You know, I think one of the other 
reasons we went to, we went to 19.10. Also, because we felt it was a pretty quick and an easy 
thing to do, but also, that's what the recommendation was. So, I don't want to go too far above 
that tonight for just one is sort of to make sure we're on solid, you know, legal footing, I think 20 
is fine. But if we were to go to 25, 26, 27 tonight, I think that's a different ballgame. And, and 
also, I mean, just in terms of fairness, I think if we had advertised this, that we were going to go 
to $25 or $26 or $27 per square foot, my guess is that the business community would be out 
here, people would want to come out and have that conversation. I don't think it's really fair, that 
we go too far beyond what we advertised. Because I don't think that's really you know, that's not 
what we, that's not what we said we were going to be discussing tonight. So, I want to be a little 
mindful of that. So, I think, I think the $20 and 10 cents is within that, within that range and is 
fine. So, I would certainly support that amendment. But I probably wouldn't go much higher than 
that tonight. But I do, you know, for folks in the... I hesitate to speak for my colleagues, but I 
think I feel pretty comfortable saying that nobody wants us to hang around and to linger that we 
want to have this discussion about going, increasing this fee even more, sooner rather than 
later. So, you know, I don't, I don't think that this is something that we're going to do this and 
then we're going to come back to this in eight months, or, you know, or seven or seven months, 
I think we're going to look to forward this conversation more quickly and get to another number, 
you know, in quick order. So, you know, at the end of the day 19.10, 20.10. If we amended this 
in three months, and it's 35 or whatever it ends up being, you know, that $1 difference isn't 
really going to make a big deal one way or the other, but I think... So, I'd be fine with that. But I 
think we need to... I wouldn't go much higher than that tonight. So... Councillor Mallon or Vice 
Mayor, sorry. 
 
Vice Mayor Alanna Mallon  38:09 
Point of information. Before we vote, are we going to be hearing from the public? I see some 
people here signed up. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  38:17 
Yeah. [sic] we have public comment. We can... We have a motion in front of us for the 
amendment. So, we have to sort of deal with that first, but yes, we will, we will go to public 
comment. So, there's... Councillor Nolan. 
 
Councillor Patricia Nolan  38:35 
Sorry, if I don't know the rules, if it makes more sense with this protocol for me to withdraw that 
to you from the public before we vote on it, I would be happy to do that. I don't know what 
makes most sense for all of you. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  38:47 
You can, you can do that. We also have, we also have to adopt the amended language from 
CDD. And then also Councillor Zondervan. You talked about taking out September 20, January 
28, and putting in upon ordination. So, we do have another couple of the amendments floating 
around, but I think we can... I don't think any of those were formally made. So, I think we can 
hold off on voting on those until public comment. So, I guess we will go to public comments 

City of Cambridge 

Page 9 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

February 12, 2020 

now. Please, when I call your name, come to the podium, state your name and your address, 
and you will have three minutes. Chris Schmidt followed by Alexandra Markiewicz. 
 
39:32 
Chris Schmidt, 17 Laurel Street. Thank you all for considering moving ahead with this. I really 
appreciate the work that went into the Nexus study and the numbers that we're seeing. It seems 
clear to me that there's some confusion among members of the council, among CDD, among 
the community about this moving with 19.10, now. I'm not going to really like sit here and nitpick 
over $1 or two here or there. I'm actually much more frustrated that I haven't seen any 
movement in the past two months on what comes next. You know, we've passed in December, 
sending this to Ordinance committee and there's no other committee hearings scheduled on the 
full Nexus study, as, as was pointed out by Councillor Zondervan. This was, you know, later 
than we expected. And I really hope that that can be scheduled. I know that everyone's here 
saying, we really want to get this done. But, but there's nothing on the schedule that I can see. 
So that, that's the biggest thing that I would say is like, you know, there's clearly an appetite 
from the members of the council, from the members of the community. And, and I know, the 
business community, as you said, is going to come here and tell us, you know, we'll never build 
a building again, in Cambridge, just as soon as you'd say it's going to be $34 or $2. They'll say 
that, but, you know, we really want to be having those conversations, because, you know, now 
we wasted or spent two months on this process. It's going to be another two to six to eight 
months before we get something else done. And we're going to be talking about an entire year 
of development that's not subject to, you know, a fuller rate. I'll also call out you know, just 
briefly, I think the Nexus study does a good job of analyzing, you know, a certain subset. You 
know, people who want to live in Cambridge because they get a new job here and would be low 
income or other things like that. But as Councillor Zondervan pointed out, does not 
accommodate for displacement and the many the other effects that the commercial businesses 
have. And that applies to jobs and to other things as well. I, I know I'm saying things you've all 
heard. I know that and I recognize that. The difference between $19 and $20 tonight makes 
much less difference to me, than the difference between $20 and $34. And that was the 
conversation I wish we were having tonight. So, thank you for your time, feel free, you know, 
please move forward in the expedient way. But the most important thing is not this 10%, 5% 
raise. It's, it's to talk about the 50% raise we should really be talking about. Thank you. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  41:43 
Thank you. Alexandra Markiewicz followed by Peter Williams. 
 
41:51 
Hi, Alexandra Markiewicz, 6Laurel Street, just here to lend my support number one to be 
against taking action where we can, so lend my support for passing the $20, I guess it is, fee 
tonight. But then echoing Chris's comments, moving quickly on understanding how we can raise 
that even further to somewhere where we're tangibly increasing opportunity for affordable 
housing, finding what is the point where we can optimize that. So, encourage folks to... 
encourage the members of the council to move forward on that. Thank you. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  42:32 
Thank you, Peter Williams fall by Larry Bluestone. 
 
42:38 
Hi, I'm Peter Williams, 35 Homer Avenue. I guess I don't really have a whole lot to add from 
what you've just heard. I'm really glad to see the energy for this kind of work, and the council 
here today. And, you know, I'd love to see things go up. I think, has been said before, you know, 

City of Cambridge 

Page 10 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

February 12, 2020 

really $3 even this kind of $50 number that seems like something that's a could make a real 
difference. But the first step is what we're talking about tonight. And so, I just really want to 
voice my support for moving forward as expeditiously as we can. Thanks. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  43:08 
Thank you. Larry Bluestone. 
 
43:13 
Good evening, Larry Bluestone, 18 Centre Street. I just want to echo what everybody has said 
before me. I fully support the increase that is being proposed tonight. But I think we soon need 
to move on to the larger conversation of increasing the linkage fee considerably more than what 
has been recommended in the Nexus report. The one point I do want to make is that if we do 
discuss significant increases in the future, the jeopardy always couched in how developers will 
react to it. Developers have a much greater issue which is they have to rent their buildings to 
businesses. Businesses need to attract employees and those employees will not come if they 
cannot afford to live in the area. So, increases in linkage fees are going to be beneficial to 
developers, and I hope we consider that in the future. Thank you.  
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  44:05 
Thank you, Alan Sadun, followed by Carolyn Fuller. 
 
44:12 
Hi, Alan Sadun, 17 Pleasant Place. I know the call for this meeting is narrow. And as Councillor 
McGovern said, this is not the end of the process of understanding the Nexus study. And I 
support this amendment with reservations because it will raise some money for affordable 
housing and that's good. But I have reservations because I know that needed change can come 
very slowly, especially when temporary action has already been taken. I worry about the fact 
that, you know, we're now considering in late... other business an extension to the tree 
protection ordinance because action on permanent policy was slower than expected. I worry 
about the fact that to my knowledge; no further meeting has been scheduled yet to discuss 
further action on raising the linkage fee. So, I want to underscore the fact that our affordable 
housing linkage fee should be raised significantly higher than $20.10. That action on this issue 
should not get lost. The Nexus study as Councillor Zondervan noted does not account for 
displacement. The primary concern that motivated the modest recommendation of the Nexus 
study was regional competitiveness. But the forecasted impact on regional rents even in the 
worst-case scenario, is miniscule compared to the year over year increase in commercial rents 
caused by construction industry changes and the general intensification of commercial interest 
in Cambridge real estate. So, raising the linkage fee is really not what's going to make or break 
our regional competitiveness. I don't want to stray too far off the topic of this meetings call. So, I 
just want to reiterate my hope and request the subsequent study and discussion begins soon 
and proceed swiftly and boldly. Thank you. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  45:40 
Thank you, Carolyn Fuller, followed by William McAvinney. 
 
45:45 
Carolyn Fuller, 12 Douglas Street, and I just want to reiterate what everybody else says which 
means I support you passing the petition tonight. But I hope the $20... and I hope you take up 
discussion soon, very soon. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  46:03 

City of Cambridge 

Page 11 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

February 12, 2020 

Thank you, Bill McAvinney. 
 
46:07 
Bill McAvinney, 12 Douglas street, Cambridge. I am here to support this passing. But I also am 
feeling like we are currently incentivizing commercial development over housing development. 
It's a little difficult to figure out what is the comparison between inclusionary zoning and linkage 
fee. But I did a sort of back of the napkin type approach to trying to do that. So, I figured while 
it's kind of obvious at 20% inclusionary, the rental, the other rental units in the building will be 
25% additional to cover that 20... to cover the ones they're supporting. If there were no income 
from that, there is income from that. I took a guess that the average income of people in the 
affordable housing units is $60,000. I suspect that's really high. But 60,000 times 30% is 18,000 
per year. I also guessed that well, I know that 2700 is the current median rental income in 
Cambridge, for new units, I suspect is higher. So, I guess 3000 are approximately 3000, 3000 
times 12 is 36,000. So, 18,000 is half of 36,000. So, you could trigger roughly 50% less than the 
25%. So that's 12 and a half percent. I've heard figures of a minimum of $400 for just 
construction costs on new, new construction. Twelve and a half percent of.... Where was I... 
Twelve and a half percent of $400 is $50. So that's kind of rough guess, of a minimum of what 
we are charging our housing developers. So, I think our commercial linkage fees should be 
much closer to that. Thank you.  
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  48:12 
Thank you. Jonathan Behrens followed by Lee Ferris. 
 
Karl F. Seidman, Consultant  48:19 
Jonathan Behrens, 115 Hampshire Streets. I'm going to echo the statements by everyone, 
pretty much everyone before me and say that this action is good, but we need much further 
action, hopefully soon after. Thank you. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  48:33 
 Thank you. Lee Ferris. 
 
48:38 
Hi, Lee Ferris, 269 Norfolk Street. I am speaking for the Cambridge Residents Alliance. We 
strongly support this increase and $20 is certainly better than $19 and we would like it to go 
higher. And you certainly had strong support from the planning board last night, saying that it 
should go higher as well. And they said that they felt it was basically a political judgment for the 
City Council as to how high exactly it should go. So, they hand it off to you guys. I know you're 
not considering going higher tonight, but just for food for thought going forward. The planning 
board members noted that the study does not include the impact of the new jobs in the 
commercial buildings on existing rents in existing apartments. And they noted that the 
commercial buildings in effect displace building housing. And my observation, a little bit similar 
to Bill's is that Cambridge, it's not getting the right ratio of commercial to housing square footage 
per year. And it might be good for our bottom line of taxes, but it's not good for livability of the 
city. Our tax situation is quite good. So, I think we should, when we come back to the further 
consideration of, of increasing linkage further, we should think about that ratio of, of commercial 
to housing. I also want to address the ways that the report calculates... why it doesn't ask for 
50... $55 per square foot. So, as I understood it, what the report does is subtract the amount of 
contribution that the Affordable Housing Trust Fund has been making. And they say that the 
Affordable Housing Trust Fund has contributed 43% to recent affordable housing developments, 
and so they project that forward. I don't think that that's the way we should calculate what we 
need because we just increased for the first time substantially the city revenue that is going to 

City of Cambridge 

Page 12 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

February 12, 2020 

affordable housing last year. But that's still not enough. And if we presume that the trust is going 
to contribute 43% of everything going forward, we will never catch up, because I think we can 
count on the federal and state funds not continuing to provide the remainder at the level that we 
would need if we presume that we're going to continue to fund at the 43% rate. So, I think a lot 
of the calculations in the report, or the report may need to be revisited. Thank you. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  51:42 
Thank you. Is there anyone who did not sign up to speak who has been so inspired that they 
want to get up now? 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  51:51 
Come on up, name, address. 
 
51:53 
So, Henry Wortis, 106 Berkshire Street. And I'm speaking for myself and also Our Revolution. 
We're strong supporters of this as a first step. And the only thing I would add beyond applause 
for what other people have already said, is that we're facing a deficit built up over the years in 
which there has been under investment in housing, affordable housing, that has resulted in 
displacement of many, many people. And in effect, those people have basically supported 
through their laws, the commercial development that has fueled the favorable tax rates that the 
rest of us have enjoyed. So, there's a lot to be made up and this is a welcome first step, but 
speed is also important because We've got decades to catch up on. Thank you very much.  
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  53:04 
Thank you. 
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  53:05 
On a motion by Councillor Zondervan to close public comment. All those in favor say aye. 
Those opposed nay. The ayes have it. Real quickly, just for the folks who talked about the 
timeline. And we certainly hear you just not to... Just to put it in a little bit in perspective, you 
know, we didn't run into a little bit of a problem where, when this came forward in December, we 
were switching, the council was switching over there was a change in the administration of the 
mayor's office. Committees were announced in the middle of January. We have been, 
Councillor Carlone and I have been meeting with CDD and with the mayor, to talk about all the 
other... there's a number of ordinances that are in front of us to make this happen. So, you 
know, there were a lot of... it's just some of it is a question of bad timing, but we, I will apologize, 
I'm taking my first vacation in two years with my kids next week. But when I come back, we have 
a meeting that Monday to really lay out a timeline for all of these pending issues. So, you will, 
this is going to happen, I promise you this is going to happen and it's going to be scheduled 
soon. So, with that, there are three amendments.  
 
Councillor Marc McGovern  54:22 

The  first  is  to  amend...  is  to  amend  11.202  Section  B  amend  by  substitution  with  CDD 
language 11.202 Section B. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed nay. The ayes have 
it. The second amendment is an amendment by Councillor Zondervan to change January 
28,  2022  to  upon  ordination,  all  those  in  favor  say  aye.  Those  opposed  nay.  The  ayes 
have it. The third amendment by Councillor Nolan to change $19 and 10 cents to $20 and 
10 cents. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed nay. The ayes have it. And then on a 
motion  by  Councillor  Zondervan  to  send  the  amended  language  to  the  full  city  council 
with  a  favorable  recommendation.  All  those  in  favor  say  aye.  Those  opposed  nay.  The 

City of Cambridge 

Page 13 

  

Minutes 

Ordinance Committee 

February 12, 2020 

ayes have it. I will entertain a motion to adjourn. On a motion by Councillor Simmons to 
adjourn.  All  those  in  favor  say  aye.  Those  opposed  nay.  The  ayes  have  it.  We  are 
adjourned. 
 

That  section  11.202(b)  of  Article  11.000,  entitled  SPECIAL  REGULATIONS,  of  the  Zoning 
Ordinance of the City of Cambridge, be amended the table as follows:      January 28, 2020 (Annual 
Adjustment) $19.10 per square foot 

RESULT: 

REFERRED 

Next: 2/24/2020 5:30 PM 

A  communication  was  received  from  the  Community  Development  Department  regarding  the 
Cambridge Incentive Zoning Nexus Study 

RESULT: 

PLACED ON FILE 

 

 

City of Cambridge 

Page 14 

  

