 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMMUNITY BENEFITS 
ADVISORY COMMITTEE 
REGULAR MEETING 

 

 

 

 

 

 

~ MINUTES ~ 

Wednesday, June 17, 2020 

9:00 – 11:00 AM 

Virtual Meeting 

Overview 

The Community Benefits  Advisory Committee (CBAC) will meet to consider  how  recently appropriated 
funds may be distributed to non-profit organizations to assist vulnerable residents impacted by the COVID-
19 pandemic. 

I.  COVID-19 Emergency & Recovery Funding 

Each grant will be $10,000, with up to 100 awarded 

Decisions that CBAC has made: 
• 
•  Nonprofits that already receive CBAC funds are eligible to apply 
 
Parameters that CBAC has established: 
•  Prioritize simplicity, expediency, and equity for nonprofits 
•  Maximize flexibility of funding for nonprofits 
•  Keep simple, only require what is necessary – for both application and reporting requirements 
• 

“Vulnerable residents” – keep definition broad, let applicants define why population they are serving is 
vulnerable/ how they are responding to needs 

– 

Include all needs identified in Needs Assessment  

•  Cast a wide net in outreach to nonprofit organizations 
 
Questions for CBAC to resolve:  
•  Duration for application window to be open?  
• 
Selection process if more than 100 applications received: Lottery?  
•  Duration of grant agreements: For use through December 31, 2020? 
•  Reporting: What information will grantees be expected to provide? (Simple, necessary, with a focus on outputs, 

not outcomes) 

Update:  
•  Announcement about forthcoming application is live – on City homepage and social media, and will be 

• 

distributed by email starting today 
Entities that otherwise meet eligibility criteria and are not incorporated as 501(c)3 organizations may apply with 
the fiscal sponsorship or partnership of a 501(c)3 organization 

 
Decisions:  
•  Application window: Aim for approximately 10 days max (e.g., 7/1/20 – 7/10/20) 
• 

Selection process:  

o  City staff (two person check) review to see if criteria met 
If yes, assign number between 1-100 
If no, inform applicant that they do not meet application criteria 
If unsure, bring to CBAC 

 
 
 

•  Duration of grants – 6 months from signing of grant agreement by both grantee and City 

City of Cambridge                                                                                                                                                                    cambridgema.gov 

1 

 

DRAFT application questions:  
1.  Organization name 
2.  Tax ID # 
3.  Contact information 
4.  Please confirm that your organization meets each of the following criteria:  

Is your organization a 501(c)3? [Y/N] 

1. 
2.  Does your organization have a location in Cambridge dedicated to serving Cambridge residents? [Y/N] 
3.  Are you able to use this money by December 31, 2020? [Y/N] 
4.  Are you addressing one or more of the needs from the Needs Assessment that are a result of, or have 

been intensified by, the COVID-19 pandemic? [Y/N] 

•  Check off which of the 12 needs in the Citywide Needs Assessment you will address with this 

funding… [multiple response]  

5.  Provide a brief description of how grant funds will be used, including a description of services, duration of 

services, and how this funding will support your continued ability to meet the needs of vulnerable Cambridge 
residents [2 paragraphs?] 

6.  Please provide/attach a budget for how you anticipate using this funding 
7.  Signature 
Discussion:  
•  Be clear that grantees do not need to wait 6 months to receive remainder of money – they can submit invoice 

and report when it has been expended  

•  Revisions: 

o  4.1. – to be inclusive of entities that have a fiscal sponsor that is a 501(c)3 
o  4.2. – to something like, “does your organization have location in Cambridge that primarily serves 

Cambridge residents?” 

o  4.3. – to reflect that timeline is, “within 6 months of grant agreement being signed 
• 

6. – to reflect request for a brief/ simple budget that explains, “generally speaking, what are you looking 
to spend money on?” 

DRAFT TIMELINE 

Week starting: 

Announcement about forthcoming application 

Finalize application components  

Approve application 

Convert application into online platform 

Release application 

Application window open  

Review applications received  

Make grantee recommendation to City 
Manager 

Send grant agreements to grantees 

Grantee and City sign grant agreements 

Initial funding distribution to each grantee 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

II.  Public Comment 

6/15 
 

6/22 
 

6/29 
 

7/6 
 

7/13 
 

7/20 
 

7/27 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

? 

City of Cambridge                                                                                                                                                                    cambridgema.gov 

2 

• 

• 

• 

Appreciation to CBAC and city staff for collaborative approach, moving process forward, focus on expediency and flexibility, 
and getting as much money as possible to grantees up front 
Important to be clear about all nuances for applicants and grantees – process for getting money up front, invoicing and 
reporting in order to receive remaining balance of grant, lottery 
It is important to remember that nonprofit organizations and Executive Directors are well aware of their 
accountability, know what they need to do to deliver services and are often expert in making clear any 
relationship with a fiscal sponsor 

 
 

 

 
 
Committee Members Present 
•  Amy Salomon 
•  Daniel Liss 
•  Elizabeth Aguilo 
•  Ellen Semonoff 
•  Kathryn Fenneman 
• 
Lisa Peterson 
•  Maria LaPage 
•  Paul Parravano 
•  Rowan Murphy 
•  Sandra Clarke 
 
Committee Members Absent 
•  Geeta Pradhan 
 
Facilitator 
•  Daniel Michaud Weinstock, dmw360 consulting 
 
Committee Staff 
•  Daniel Wolf, Community Development Department 
 

City of Cambridge                                                                                                                                                                    cambridgema.gov 

3 

