 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMMUNITY BENEFITS 
ADVISORY COMMITTEE 
REGULAR MEETING 

 

 

 

 

 

 

~ MINUTES ~ 

Wednesday, June 24, 2020 

9:30 – 11:30 AM 

Virtual Meeting 

Overview 

The Community Benefits  Advisory Committee (CBAC) will meet to consider  how  recently appropriated 
funds may be distributed to non-profit organizations to assist vulnerable residents impacted by the COVID-
19 pandemic. 

I.  COVID-19 Emergency & Recovery Funding 

Each grant will be $10,000, with up to 100 awarded 

Decisions that CBAC has made: 
• 
•  Nonprofits that already receive CBAC funds are eligible to apply 
•  Application window will be open for ≤10 days 
• 
•  Grant agreements will be for 6 months from the date of signed grant agreement, and grant recipients can 

If more than 100 eligible applications are received, a random lottery will be held to determine 100 recipients  

submit invoice and report to receive final payment prior to end of 6-month window 

 
Parameters that CBAC has established: 
•  Prioritize simplicity, expediency, and equity for nonprofits 
•  Maximize flexibility of funding for nonprofits 
•  Keep simple, only require what is necessary – for both application and reporting requirements 
• 

“Vulnerable residents” – keep definition broad, let applicants define why population they are serving is 
vulnerable/ how they are responding to needs 

• 

Include all needs identified in Needs Assessment  

•  Cast a wide net in outreach to nonprofit organizations 
 
Questions for CBAC to resolve:  
• 

If an applying entity is not a 501(c)3 and has a fiscal sponsor/ partner, does that fiscal sponsor/ partner need to 
be located in Cambridge?  
If more than 100 eligible applications are received, and a lottery is required, what does that look like?  

• 
•  Reporting: What information will grantees be expected to provide? (Simple, necessary, with a focus on outputs, 

not outcomes) 

 
DRAFT PROGRAM LANDING PAGE MESSAGE  
 
Application for COVID-19 Emergency & Recovery Grants for Eligible Cambridge Nonprofit Organizations 
 
Overview: The intent of this funding is to provide COVID-19 related assistance and critical supports to the vulnerable 
and at-risk Cambridge families and individuals served by Cambridge nonprofit organizations. The nonprofits are a 
critical resource to support vulnerable residents and this is especially true during the coronavirus pandemic.  The 
Community Benefits Advisory Committee worked collaboratively among its members and with the Cambridge 
Nonprofit Coalition to develop the approach to funding that is described below. In developing this approach, the 

City of Cambridge                                                                                                                                                                    cambridgema.gov 

1 

 

Committee has prioritized simplicity, expediency, and equity for eligible entities, as well as maximizing the flexibility 
of the funding within City and state legal mandates.  
 
The Community Benefits Advisory Committee acts on the Guiding Principles for Community Benefits Funding, 
adopted by the Cambridge City Council, and makes recommendations to the City Manager for the approval of grant 
awards with nonprofit organizations to deliver services. Grants must be aligned with the Cambridge Community 
Needs Assessment. 
 
Contact Information: Please direct all communications and questions to: communitybenefits@cambridgema.gov  
 
Use of Funding: The funding can be used to enable grantees to deliver or redesign services to vulnerable residents 
during the COVID-19 emergency and recovery; this includes planning work done to prepare for the delivery of 
services and/or resources necessary for facilitating the delivery of services, and could entail staffing, furnishings, 
equipment, technology, and/or supplies that enable service delivery that would not otherwise be possible or would 
otherwise suffer as a result of COVID-19. Services must respond to the needs identified in the Cambridge Community 
Needs Assessment and are subject to the requirements of the Community Benefits Advisory Committee Ordinance, 
Chapter 2.127 of the Municipal Code.  
  
Award Amount: $10,000 per entity – with [$6,000] to be distributed following the signing of a grant agreement 
between the City and the grantee, and the remaining amount to be distributed upon the City’s receipt of a final 
invoice and brief report about services delivered; the funds must be expended no later than 6 months from the date 
of the grant agreement, and can be expended sooner.   
 
Number of Awards: Up to 100. 
 
Eligibility: To be considered for this funding, each entity must meet each of the following eligibility criteria:  

• 

Is a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization or has a fiscal sponsor/ partner applying on its behalf that is a 501(c)3 
nonprofit organization 

•  Has a location in Cambridge that serves Cambridge residents  
• 
• 

Is able to expend the funds within 6 months of entering a grant agreement with the City 
Is addressing one or more of the needs from the Cambridge Community Needs Assessment that are a direct 
result of, or have been intensified by, the COVID-19 pandemic 

 
Application Process  
•  Please click on [this LINK] to submit your application. If you have any technical difficulties or want to request an 

electronic version of the application, please contact  communitybenefits@cambridgema.gov 

 
Discussion:  
• 
•  Remove bracket from $6000 
•  Add dates for submission and review process 

Insert 12 needs in addition to link to Community Needs Assessment, if it can be done unobtrusively  

DRAFT COVID-19 Nonprofit Grant Application 
 
Overview: As approved by the Cambridge City Council, the intent of this funding is to provide COVID-19 related 
assistance and critical supports to the vulnerable and at-risk Cambridge families and individuals served by 
Cambridge nonprofit organizations. The nonprofits are a critical resource to support vulnerable residents and this is 
especially true during the coronavirus pandemic.  
 
Use of Funding: The funding can be used to enable grantees to deliver or redesign services to vulnerable residents 
during the COVID-19 emergency and recovery; this includes planning work done to prepare for the delivery of 

City of Cambridge                                                                                                                                                                    cambridgema.gov 

2 

 

services and/or resources necessary for facilitating the delivery of services, and could entail staffing, furnishings, 
equipment, technology, and/or supplies that enable service delivery that would not otherwise be possible or would 
otherwise suffer as a result of COVID-19. Services must respond to the needs identified in the Cambridge Community 
Needs Assessment and are subject to the requirements of the Community Benefits Advisory Committee Ordinance, 
Chapter 2.127 of the Municipal Code.  
 
Award Amount: $10,000 per entity – with [$6,000] to be distributed following the signing of a grant agreement 
between the City and the grantee, and the remaining amount to be distributed upon the City’s receipt of a final 
invoice and brief report about services delivered; the funds must be expended no later than 6 months from the date 
of the grant agreement, and can be expended sooner.  
Application Process: If you have any technical difficulties or want to request an electronic version of the application, 
please contact communitybenefits@cambridgema.gov. 
 
1. Name of person submitting application (first and last name) 
 
2. Job title of person submitting application 
 
3. Name of organization/ entity applying for funding* 
 
4. Tax ID #* 
 
5. Contact Information 
•  Full Name* 
• 
•  City* 
• 
State* 
•  Zipcode* 
•  Phone number* 
•  Email address* 

Street Address* 

 
6. Please confirm that your organization meets each of the following eligibility criteria: 

• 

Is your organization a 501(c)3?* 

• 

Is your organization a 501(c)3 applying as a fiscal sponsor on behalf of a non-profit organization that will 
provide services but is not a 501(c)3?* 

•  What is the name of the non-profit organization? 
•  What is the contact name for that non-profit organization? 
•  Affirmation: I understand that a Fiscal Sponsor will need to complete a Fiscal Sponsor Authorization Form 

and include same with your grant agreement prior to the grant funds being disbursed:* 

•  Does your organization (organization being sponsored) have a location in Cambridge that serves Cambridge 

o  Yes 
o  No 

o  Yes 
o  No 

o  Yes 
o  No 

residents?* 
o  Yes 
o  No 

•  Please include organization's Cambridge address here: 
• 

Is the organization able to able use this money within 6 months of entering a grant agreement with the 
City?* 

City of Cambridge                                                                                                                                                                    cambridgema.gov 

3 

• 

Is the organization addressing one or more of the needs from the Needs Assessment that are a result of, or 
have been intensified by, the COVID-19 pandemic?* 

 

o  Yes 
o  No 

o  Yes 
o  No 

o  Select 

• 

If yes, select all needs you will address:* 

 
7. Please attach the following three documents:* 

1) A brief description of how grant funds will be used, including a description of services, anticipated number 
of residents served, duration of services, and how this funding will support your continued ability to meet the 
needs of vulnerable Cambridge residents [2 paragraphs suggested] 
2) A simple budget and brief budget narrative that indicates what you anticipate spending this money on 
3) A W-9 Form 
Drag and drop files here or browse files 

 
8. Signature(s)* 
The person signing this application must be an authorized signor on behalf of the organization/entity seeking 
funding AND, if applying as a fiscal sponsor/organization that is a 501(c)3, the person signing must be an Authorized 
signor on behalf of the fiscal sponsor/organization that is a 501(c)3 and applying on the behalf of the organization/ 
entity seeking funding. By signing this Application, the Applicant hereby acknowledges and affirms that all of the 
information provided in the above Application is complete, true, and accurate to the best of their knowledge and 
belief. 
 
Discussion:  

•  Preference that application be directed toward completion by entity to be delivering services with 
additional page/ form for Fiscal Sponsor to complete, and questions that capture this, such as –  

o  What is the name of the entity applying to deliver services?  
o  Do you have a fiscal sponsor? If so… What is name of fiscal sponsor? Is it a 501(c)3? What is the Tax 

ID number of the fiscal sponsor?  

• 

If application is directed toward completion by fiscal sponsor, make it much clearer and more intuitive, such 
as –  

o  What is the name of the nonprofit organization you are applying on behalf of… 

•  Grant agreement is with fiscal sponsor; legal responsibility lives with fiscal sponsor  
•  Require submission of Fiscal Sponsor Authorization Form with application  
•  Make eligibility requirements clearer above and within application – i.e., be clear, “if you answer ‘No’ to any 

of the questions, you are not eligible”  

•  Preference is that fiscal sponsor is based in Cambridge, but not necessary  
• 
To support applicants, offer an office hours-type opportunity for applicants 

 
DRAFT TIMELINE 

Week starting: 

Approve application 

6/22 
 

6/29 
 

7/6 
 

7/13 
 

7/20 
 

7/27 

Release application (on or by 7/1) 

Application window open (until 7/9 or 
7/10) 

Rolling review of applications received  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Cambridge                                                                                                                                                                    cambridgema.gov 

4 

If needed:  
CBAC review of application(s) for which 
eligibility is uncertain; CBAC lottery if >100 
eligible applicants 

Make grantee recommendation to City 
Manager 

Send grant agreements to grantees 

Grantee and city sign grant agreements  

Initial funding distribution to each grantee 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 ? 

Decisions:  
•  CBAC prefers that the fiscal sponsor is located in Cambridge, but it is not required 
• 
•  Reporting – use same questions as application requests, in past tense 

Lottery process – use Research Randomizer (or similar electronic tool), and identify 100 numbers selected  

II.  Public Comment 

•  Within the application, make clear that there is no added benefit to any applicant that meets multiple needs 
• 
If possible, share list of organizations that have requested applications with Cambridge Nonprofit Coalition to 
support their outreach 

•  Cambridge Nonprofit Coalitions is a fiscally sponsored entity and has experience applying for funding as such, 

and is willing to be beta tester for application before it goes live 

 
 
Committee Members Present 
•  Daniel Liss 
•  Elizabeth Aguilo 
•  Ellen Semonoff 
•  Kathryn Fenneman 
• 
Lisa Peterson 
•  Maria LaPage 
•  Paul Parravano 
•  Rowan Murphy 
•  Sandra Clarke 
 
Committee Members Absent 
•  Geeta Pradhan 
•  Amy Salomon 
 
Facilitator 
•  Daniel Michaud Weinstock, dmw360 consulting 
 
Committee Staff 
•  Daniel Wolf, Community Development Department 
 

 

 

 

 

City of Cambridge                                                                                                                                                                    cambridgema.gov 

5 

