 

In City Council October 19, 2020 

 
 
 
 
 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND UNIVERSITY RELATIONS  
COMMITTEE MEMBERS 
 
Vice Mayor Mallon, Chair 
Councillor Patricia Nolan 
Councillor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler 
Councillor Timothy J. Toomey, Jr. 
Councillor Quinton J. Zondervan 
 
The Economic Development and University Relations Committee held a public hearing on           
Wednesday, September 30, 2020 at 2:00 p.m. in the Sullivan Chamber for the purpose of receiving final 
recommendations from the Community Development Department on updating the commercial land use 
classification system within the Cambridge Zoning Ordinance.   
 
Present at the hearing were Vice Mayor Mallon, Chair of the Committee, Councillor Toomey, Naomie 
Stephen, Executive Assistant to the City Council, and Paula M. Crane, Deputy City Clerk. 
 
Present for the hearing via Zoom were Councillor Nolan, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Councillor 
Zondervan, Councillor Carlone, Mayor Siddiqui, Nancy Glowa, City Solicitor, Iram Farooq, Assistant 
City Manager for Community Development, Jeff Roberts, Director of Zoning and Development, Pardis 
Saffari, Senior Economic Development Manager, Community Development Department (CDD), Anthony 
Wilson, City Clerk, Ranjit Singanayagam, Commissioner, Sisia Daglian, Assistant Commissioner, 
Inspectional Services Department (ISD), Alex Rubin, Andree Entezari, Corinne Espinoza, Jason Alves, 
Executive Director, East Cambridge Business Association, John Hawkinson and Robert P. Reardon. 
   
Vice Mayor Mallon convened the hearing and welcomed all present.  She read the Governor’s Order 
regarding remote participation and the Call of the Meeting.  She requested a Roll Call to indicate a 
quorum for the hearing.   
 
The roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
PRESENT:  Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Nolan, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Councillor 

Toomey, and Councillor Zondervan   

 

 

-5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-0 

 
ABSENT: 
 
and a quorum was present.   
 
Vice Mayor Mallon turned the floor over to Ms. Farooq and Mr. Roberts for a presentation.  Ms. Farooq 
stated that two parts to the materials that were submitted to the Committee (ATTACHMENT A).  The 
first is zoning CDD has been talking to with the Economic Development and University Relations 
Committee about for some time and in which there has been a lot of interest from the retail small business 
community as well as the business associations. She said that it has come up as a priority during their 
work with the Small Business Advisory Committee that was set up during Covid and it and responds to 
the changing need of retail and small businesses and making sure that the City’s zoning is up to date to 
accommodate retail in today’s world.  She said that they have formulated zoning recommendations after 
the last discussion on the conceptual pieces with the committee.  She said that the second piece is some 

zoning text amendments related to home-based occupations, particularly focusing on residential kitchens 
and cottage food production.  She said that CDD has had initial discussions and it was noted while this is 
something that they have heard of, from the staff perspective, they would caution stepping carefully into 
this as this is looking at activities in people’s homes and it can have an impact on abutters and this is 
something that the Inspectional Services Department hears about from time to time.  She asked the 
Committee to keep this in mind.  She stated her hope that Mr. Singanayagam will speak about 
enforcement challenges that are encountered.   
 
Jeff Roberts gave an overview of the PowerPoint presentation (ATTACHMENT B).  He stated that this is 
a brief presentation and it is a continuation of the discussion from the prior Economic Development and 
University Relations meeting.  He said that since that time, CDD has spent extensive effort working both 
within CDD, ISD, the City Solicitor’s Office, and the Department of Public Health to complete a set of 
suggested zoning text amendments.  He said that the hope is to talk through it and then have an 
opportunity to answer questions and receive feedback.    
 
Vice Mayor Mallon welcomed Ranjit Singanayagam and Sisia Daglian from ISD to answer questions 
specifically around the cottage food business and home-based occupation issue that is before the 
Committee today.  She stated that ISD has some concerns related to this change and will be happy to 
answer questions.   
 
Vice Mayor Mallon stated that no one had signed up for Public Comment.   
 
Councillor Toomey made a motion to close Public Comment. The roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
YEAS:   

Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Nolan, Councillor Toomey,  
Councillor Zondervan 

-4 

 

 

 

 

 

 
ABSENT:  

 

Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler 

 

 

 

 

-1 

and Public Comment was closed. 
 
Councillor Zondervan thanked Mr. Roberts for the presentation which addresses many of the issues that 
were asked about.  He said that he would like to talk about the parking proposal.  He stated that he does 
not understand the reduction.  He said that this contains a lot of qualifiers. Jeff Roberts stated that he 
switched the slide to show the zoning text.  There is an existing section of the zoning that says as an 
exemption to parking requirement, any non-residential use that would require 4 or fewer spaces and there 
are other qualifications about being in a building with over 10,000 square feet or less, then the parking 
requirements are waived.  This is adding another piece to that exemption.  He said that it is similar to the 
provision that exists in Harvard and Central Squares which effectively says that if you have an existing 
building that is in place and a use moved out of the building and a new use moves into the building, that 
use is not required to build new parking spaces as a result of moving into that building.  He said that this 
is the issue that many businesses face right now; they move into an existing building, if it is a restaurant 
that is moving into a building that used to be an office and it might trigger an additional parking 
requirement and the choice is to either building parking spaces on site or go to the BZA to get relief. 
Councillor Zondervan said that all that is being added is the provision that the other provisions are pre-
existing and will continue.  Councillor Zondervan said that he fully supports this amendment. He said that 
supports more analysis as it relates to parking requirements. 
 
Councillor Nolan thanked Vice Mayor Mallon and City staff for their hard work.  She said that while she 
is in support of adding categories, do we really need 31 categories.  She asked if it can it be made simpler 
in the interest of being more streamlined.  Mr. Robert said that this is the crux of a lot of discussion.  He 

said that there are always different ways to structure a use definition if one was starting from scratch.  He 
noted that they are working with a system of use regulations that has been in place and has resulted in 
what we have presently.  The more changes that are made, the more the potential for unintended 
consequences.  He said that they were trying to amend the use definitions to be as close to what is in place 
currently while at the same time addressing specific concerns that have been raised.  By cleaning up the 
definitions, the City Council can decide how it wants to regulate particular uses.  This allow future City 
Councils to have the same discretion.  Nancy Glowa added that legally, it is important to describe and 
define each use that the City Council wants to be a permitted use.  She said that under zoning law, any use 
that is not specifically categorized as an allowed use is not allowed.  She said that the Zoning Ordinance 
does not have the kind of flexibility that Councillor Nolan is suggesting.  Councillor Nolan stated that she 
is hoping that we could consolidate the list of uses by grouping those that are similar.  She asked if it is 
normal for a city to have 31 uses.  Ms. Farooq said that staff attempted to look at where things could be 
consolidated but were cautious about where there were distinctions.  She said that there is a series of 
requirements that may relate to a provision of food in a particular location that are distinct from other 
services.  She said that it is helpful to have those separate.  She said that part is regulation and part is 
impact. Councillor Nolan said that it is complex to look at.  She said that there is a distinction on home- 
based businesses related to the number of people allowed.  She said that she is curious as to why 
businesses are treated differently.  Mr. Roberts responded that as it relates to the home-based occupations, 
they were taking most of the lead from current zoning.  He said that current zoning only calls out offices 
and massage therapists.  Again, it has to do with the nature of that type of a home-based use. They did 
want to effectively change the current zoning to have offices have some ancillary employees on site.  
They were trying to start with existing zoning and add on parts that are meant to be added.  He said that 
they had to decide what were the general limitations.  Councillor Nolan said that she is not sure that 
makes sense as it is odd not to treat all professionals the same.   
 
Nancy Glowa added that the idea of an accessory use comes out of the longstanding practice of what 
would be a customary home-based use.  If you have a law practice or other professional office, 
historically that has meant an assistant as opposed to several attorneys. 
 
Vice Mayor Mallon said that procedurally, the committee could move the potential zoning text 
amendments out of the Economic Development and University Relations Committee to the full City 
Council for referral to the Ordinance Committee and Planning Board for a full process.  She noted that 
she would like to see more community engagement at the Ordinance Committee level as this is an 
important conversation and the public has not been heard from. 
 
Councillor Carlone said that this is well thought out proposal that makes sense.  He said that one benefit 
of all retail type of uses listed is that developers or agents can see immediately what is allowed.     He 
asked if the same kind of work will continue in other use areas.  He asked about capacity.  Ms. Farooq 
said that CDD currently has other priority items from the City Council so those are ahead of anything else 
in the workplan.  She said these are foundational aspects of the zoning ordinance so there is a lot of work 
that goes into developing and modifications.  She said that if the City Council wants CDD to tackle other 
aspects, they would be ready to take on such aspects ahead of other items.  Councillor Carlone said that 
he believed that we were looking over all of the uses.  He said that he is talking about disconnecting two 
uses in the same category.   
 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler asked about the changes in the parking requirements for clarity.  Mr. 
Roberts said that the suggested change is an addition to an existing section which provides an exemption 
for small scale non-residential uses.  In addition to the current exemption, it would exempt new parking 
requirements for any non-residential use in an existing building.   
 

Vice Mayor Mallon thanked CDD and the City Solicitor’s Office for their work.  She stated that these 
amendments line up perfectly with what was discussed at the prior meeting.  She said that she looks 
forward to forwarding this to the full City Council and the Ordinance Committee for a deeper 
conversation.  As it relates to the parking requirements, she said that parking requirement that we are 
changing in Section 6.32.1 was the number one thing that was discussed as an impediment to opening 
quickly by businesses.  Mr. Roberts said that during the process of reviewing what were the most typical 
regulatory burdens for small businesses, one of the things most likely to land a new business in front of 
the BZA for some type of relief, parking relief was at the top.  He said that when a small business needs 
to get relief from the BZA is a relief from parking requirements.  Iram Farooq asked Pardis Saffari to 
speak to this because she has spent a lot of time with businesses and the challenges that they encounter.  
Pardis Saffari stated that it is one of the top issues of concern.  She said that a lot of it has to do with the 
fact that a lot of new businesses want to be hybrid and having to go to the BZA for parking relief is an 
impediment.  She said that the expansion of recommendations as well as the new hybrid uses will help 
with that.  Vice Mayor Mallon said that the parking burden and requirement is one of things that 
businesses talk about the most as it relates to getting through the process.  She said that this type of 
change has been very thoughtful.  She stated that there are sad stories about retail that would be exciting 
that would enliven retail corridors but they decide to move elsewhere where regulatory requirements are 
not as stringent.   
 
Vice Mayor Mallon stated that she would like to talk about the home-based cottage food industry and the 
change in home-based businesses.  Ms. Farooq stated that the key issue with regard to the home-based 
businesses is that they are in urban settings which means that they are fairly close to next door neighbors.  
She explained that ISD will be the entity most conversant to the challenges in this regard.  Ranjit 
Singanayagam stated that a home-based cottage food business would have to get a Food Handlers Permit 
and an inspection of the property from ISD.  He said that if they are going to provide a kitchen with a 
stove, the Fire Department will be involved.  Vice Mayor Mallon said that she is curious about permitting 
process, inspections, etc.  She asked what ISD is thinking about in terms of permitting and oversight.  Mr. 
Singanayagam said that they will inspect a home-based food business as they do any other food 
establishment.  He noted that if there are no complaints, they are inspected yearly.   
 
Councillor Nolan asked what lessons can be learned from other cities and towns and their experiences 
with unintended consequences. Mr. Singanayagam said that he has spoken with staff in Arlington who 
said that they inspect the property and issue Food Handlers licenses. Councillor Nolan said that she is 
supportive of this endeavor. 
 
Councillor Carlone said that he assumes that the ISD and the Fire Department are primarily fire 
suppression and perhaps the series of stoves beyond one residential stove. He said that if you are selling 
to the public, you are not generally working with one stove, is that correct?  Ranjit Singanayagam said 
that if they will install another stove, that will involve plumbing inspectors. These things must be 
considered as well.     
 
Vice Mayor Mallon said that it seems that Arlington has this part of their zoning, but she imagines that 
there are other cities and towns that ISD can continue reach out to as it relates to best practices.  She looks 
forward to the continuation of this conversation.   
 
Councillor Toomey asked Ms. Glowa that if a business is in a residential building, would the homeowner 
and abutters be notified that a tenant has applied for a permit for a home-based food business.  Ms. Glowa 
stated that the owner would be notified if they were installing an additional stove. Nancy Glowa added 
that a lot of these issues involve legal issues.  She explained that anytime there is an application for 
zoning relief, the owner of the property is required to sign off on the application itself.  With respect to 

something that is allowed as of right, it would typically need owner consent. As it relates to 
condominiums, it relies on condominium documents.  
 
Vice Mayor Mallon said that she is hearing from the Committee is that it would like to forward both 
zoning amendments to the full City Council for referral to the Ordinance Committee and Planning Board. 
She said that they should be sent separately because it sounds like the Home Occupations proposed 
zoning amendments may be trickier and need more meetings than the Retail or Consumer Services 
Establishments proposed amendments.   
 
Councillor Zondervan made a motion to send both proposed zoning amendments to the full City Council 
with a favorable recommendation.  The roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
YEAS: 

Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Nolan, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Councillor 
Toomey, and Councillor Zondervan   

-5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-0 

 
NAYS: 
 
and the motion passed.   
 
One written communication was received from Andree Entezari (ATTACHMENT C). 
 
Vice Mayor Mallon thanked all those present for their attendance. 
 
On a motion from Councillor Toomey to adjourn the hearing, the roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
YEAS: 

Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Nolan, Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Councillor 
Toomey, and Councillor Zondervan   

-5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
ABSENT: 
 
and the hearing adjourned at 3:26 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                            
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-0 

For the Committee, 

________________________________ 
Vice Mayor Mallon, Chair 
Economic Development and University Relations 
Committee 

