 

 

In City Council November 16, 2020 

  
 
 
NEIGHBORHOOD & LONG-TERM PLANNING; 
PUBLIC FACILITIES, ARTS AND CELEBRATIONS 
COMMITTEE MEMBERS 
Councillor Patricia Nolan, Chair 
Councillor Dennis Carlone 
Vice Mayor Alanna Mallon 
Councillor Marc McGovern 
Councillor Quinton Zondervan 
 
The Neighborhood & Long-Term Planning; Public Facilities, Arts and Celebrations Committee 
held a public hearing on Wednesday, October 7, 2020 at 2:00 p.m. in the Sullivan Chamber on 
the reappointment of Christopher Bator to the Cambridge Redevelopment Authority for a term of 
five years and to discuss the Envision Cambridge citywide plan, and review how to set priorities 
and goals. 
 
Present at the hearing were Councillor Nolan, Chair of the Committee, Naomie Stephen, 
Executive Assistant to the City Council, and Paula M. Crane, Deputy City Clerk.   
 
Present via Zoom were Councillor Carlone, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Zondervan, 
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Mayor Siddiqui, Lisa Peterson, Assistant City Manager, Iram 
Farooq, Assistant City Manager for Community Development, Chris Cotter, Housing Director, 
Jeff Roberts, Director of Zoning and Development, Melissa Peters, Director of Community 
Planning, Community Development Department (CDD), Anthony Wilson, City Clerk, Tom 
Evans, Executive Director, Kathleen Born, Chairperson, Board Member, Christopher Bator, 
Board Member, Cambridge Redevelopment Authority (CRA), Catherine Zusy, Cynthia Hibbard, 
Doug Brown, Elaine DeRosa, Eric Grunebaum, Heather Hoffman, Henry Vandermark, James 
Zall, John Hawkinson, Lee Farris, Marilee Meyer, Marlene Lundberg, Nancy Ryan, Richard 
Krushnic and Suzanne Blier.  
 
Councillor Nolan convened the hearing and read the Call of the Meeting and the Governor’s 
Executive Order regarding remote participation.  She asked for a Roll Call to indicate a quorum 
for the hearing.   
 
The roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
PRESENT:  Councillor Nolan, Councillor Carlone, and Councillor Zondervan 
 
 
ABSENT: 
 
and a quorum was present.   
 
Councillor Nolan opened the hearing to Public Comment. 
 
Lee Farris, Cambridge Residents Alliance, read from a prepared written statement 
(ATTACHMENT A) noting that the Envision plan goals are good overall, but some of them 

Vice Mayor Mallon and Councillor McGovern 

-3 

-2 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conflict with each other.  She asked that the City discuss creating a process on how to resolve 
conflicting goals.    
 
Suzanne Blier stated that she attended as many meetings as she could, but she emphasized that 
this is not a city plan.  She said that the citizens asked for one and the City hired Utile and then 
decided that instead of an actual plan we would settle for goals, many of which are contradictory.  
She said that there is no zoning code or designation of places.  She said that there are key areas 
of the city with no plans that have been updated in many years.  This has opened the City to spot 
zoning.  She asked the City Council to look at the contradictory elements of the plan.     
 
Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street, stated that she is one of the few members of the public that 
attend the CRA meetings.  She said that the CRA could teach every other board, commission, 
and City Council about how to treat the public and to encourage the public to take part in their 
deliberations.  She said that she cannot think of a member of the current CRA board that she 
would be happy to see replaced.  She said that she would like to see Mr. Bator reappointed.  She 
said that as it relates to Envision, it is a monumental disappointment. She said that it is not a 
disappointment that the people that the City hired did a lousy job, it is a disappointment because 
the City administration required them to do a lousy job.  She said that when talking about 
stability, the fact is that everything the city does undermines stability.  She noted that the City 
Council has become interested in seeing how one particular thing that the city government can 
do affects rent, how about rampant commercial development with no creation of long-term 
housing.     
 
Councillor Nolan made a motion to close Public Comment. 
 
The roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
YEAS: 

Councillor Nolan, Councillor Carlone, Vice Mayor Mallon, and Councillor 
Zondervan 
 
 
 
Councillor McGovern  

 
ABSENT: 
 
and Public Comment was closed at 2:13 p.m. 
 
Councillor Nolan invited Mr. Evans to briefly provide introduction to the CRA Board process.  
Mr. Evans noted that the CRA has guided the city through a dynamic period.  He said that Mr. 
Bator grew up in Cambridge and has a long career in government service.  He stated that Mr. 
Bator has been highly attentive to the Board’s fiduciary position and has worked hard to ensure 
that resources that they have are extended to facilitate projects throughout the City of 
Cambridge.  He stated that Mr. Bator has encouraged thoughtful investment in purchases and 
other strategic partnerships.   
 
Kathy Born added that the last eight years have been a terrific exercise in small democracy in the 
City of Cambridge through the CRA.  They have been careful in setting goals and measuring 
accomplishments against those goals.  She said that Mr. Bator has been a most conscientious 
Treasurer.  She said that as it relates to financial matters, Mr. Bator has been at the helm when 

-4 

-1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the CRA was taken over.  She said that every member of the CRA are contributing members.  
She said that she is happy to continue to work with Mr. Bator.   
 
Christopher Bator stated that he is happy to answer any questions that people may have.  He has 
been deeply honored to serve on the CRA since 2012.  He said he is proud of the work that has 
been done which involved rebuilding the CRA from Ground Zero.  He asserted that the CRA has 
a very talented and professional staff.  He said that the CRA Board works wonderfully together.  
He noted that he cares most about trying to move the wealth that exists in Kendall Square and 
spread it to important needs across Cambridge.   
 
Councillor Carlone stated that the CRA has unique capabilities and that is one of the reasons he 
wants them to get involved in purchase of affordable housing.  He said that he is impressed with 
Mr. Bator.  He said that the more the City Council includes the CRA in implementing projects, 
the better.  He thanked the CRA Board for its important work. 
 
Councillor Zondervan stated that he has been impressed by the work of the CRA and the number 
of times that they have been rescuers in difficult situations. Councillor Zondervan asked how we 
can do more to develop the city in a way that is just and benefits all residents. Mr. Bator stated 
that he would defer to Mr. Evans for a more substantive answer.  Mr. Bator said that in his view, 
they are deeply committed to use the resources and talents of the CRA to assist the City, not just 
in the core responsibilities in Kendall Square.  He said that they are looking for opportunities to 
do work where there is need.  He said that they have had a very significant grassroots strategic 
planning effort in order to ensure that where they choose to use the resources, it is among the 
most important things in the purview of the CRA. He said that the CRA seeks guidance from all 
important entities in the City. Mr. Evans added that the last time that the CRA met with the City 
Council in February, the CRA was discussing a revisit of their strategic plan.  He noted that he 
looks forward to a broader discussion and engage the City Council in this process. 
 
Vice Mayor Mallon thanked Mr. Bator for his continued service.  She said that she is 
appreciative of the work of the entire CRA.  She said that the City Council will be drawing on 
the CRA in the future to get the City through the Covid situation to see all the different ways to 
partner together to help those in the community that are struggling.   
 
Councillor Nolan said that she is thrilled that Mr. Bator will continue his work.  She said that 
transparency has been a hallmark of the CRA, recently, after a time of trouble and operations that 
were not transparent and exhibited poor practices.  She expressed gratitude that the current CRA 
board corrected those past deficiencies and now is a great example to the rest of the city.  And 
noted that the Foundry project is a excellent example not yet mentioned of the CRA’s good work 
 
Councillor Nolan made a motion to forward a favorable recommendation to the full City Council 
on the reappointment of Christopher Bator to the Cambridge Redevelopment Authority for a 
term of five years. 
 
The roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-1 

-0 

-4 

Councillor McGovern  

Councillor Nolan, Councillor Carlone, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor 
Zondervan 

YEAS:  
 
 
 
NAYS: 
 
ABSENT: 
 
and the motion passed. 
 
Councillor Nolan moved to the Envision Cambridge citywide plan.  She stated that the 
background for the meeting is that there have been many hours spent on Envision with a robust 
City process that sought to develop a comprehensive planning document for the City.  She said 
that the last meeting of the City Council on this issue was in December of 2019.  She stated that 
today’s meeting is the first step in moving forward and getting the City back on track.  She said 
that one of hundreds of ideas was the Affordable Housing Overlay which became a central focus.  
She said that there are planning goals, focus areas, 300 action items with 44 priorities.  She said 
that the publication of the final plan brought together many of the elements into the City from a 
range of areas. She said that we must take a step back and review where Envision landed the 
City, what has happened since that process.  She said that the interim document was put out in 
2017 with a final document in 2019.  She said that her hope is that the committee reviews how 
Envision is being used and how it is shaping the work of the City.  She stated that it is important 
for the City Council to weigh in. 
 
Ms. Farooq stated that she is appreciative of being present when the committee is voting on the 
reappointment of Mr. Bator. She said that the CRA is a partner agency to the City and there have 
been many initiatives and endeavors in which they have worked in partnership.  She noted that 
she is pleased to see positive feedback and to see him reappointed.     
 
As it relates to the impact of Covid 19 on Envision, Ms. Farooq said that as CDD has looked at, 
it is a long-term plan that has not been changed significantly by Covid.  She said that it does 
shine a stronger light on some of the elements, particularly in the last 6-7 months such as 
community health, social equity, and racial equity.  She said that CDD has been focused over the 
last several months on the response to the pandemic such as supporting residents and businesses.  
She said it was interesting for CDD to pivot back to the long-term planning mode in preparation 
for this hearing.  She noted that CDD did not ask partner departments to be present for the 
hearing but their feedback is incorporated into the materials that CDD sent out earlier this week 
that includes updates on each of the topic areas in terms action status.  She said that in terms of 
the prioritization process with Envision Cambridge and each of the topic areas, it is more of a 
framework for how to move forward in each endeavor.  In looking at all the action items and 
working with the community and the working groups, they went through a process of 
prioritization to determine higher priority items and particularly which were short term versus 
long term.  She said that at today’s meeting they are focusing on the high priority, short-term 
actions.  Within that ,they have tried to keep maximum flexibility.  She said that in terms of the 
work that is taken up by CDD each year is what the particular needs of the moment are.  In terms 
of what would be most useful to staff from today’s discussion, Ms. Farooq noted that being able 
to understand what is important to the City Council and the community is very helpful as they 

move toward the budgeting process.  Ms. Farooq introduced Community Development staff and 
invited Melissa Peters to give a summary of the materials that were sent to the Committee 
(ATTACHMENT B). 
 
Ms. Peters gave an overview which stated that Envision Cambridge is a roadmap to the year 
2030, setting out a course of action to promote inclusive and sustainable growth.  She noted that 
the plan recommends 37 Goals, 42 strategies, and 176 new actions across six planning topics: 
climate and environment, community wellbeing, economy, housing, mobility and urban form.   
 
Councillor Carlone stated that he appreciates the update.  He reminded everyone that he co-wrote 
the Policy Order and it was a struggle to get it approved.  He said that it was planning and urban 
design yet when he looked at the urban form section, there were guidelines but there were no 
urban design massing studies, height studies or open space studies.  He does not know how you 
do zoning without an urban design analysis.  He said that this baffles him.  Ms. Farooq addressed 
in the Urban Form section many of the priority areas and action items that will get to the specific 
urban design recommendations that Councillor Carlone is speaking of.  For example, one of the 
recommendations is taking a closer look at the Inman Square area and what development 
patterns there might look like, particularly as impacted by the Green Line extension.  She said 
that as we delve into that level of plan, that will be more granular and would incorporate more 
detailed urban design input that Councillor Carlone is referring to.  Councillor Carlone said that 
all the commercial districts need to be studied.  He said that it is not on the list and if you are 
going to do that, add it.  He said that urban design will study conflicts.  Councillor Carlone said 
that a confusing thing to him is that Envision they mandated an urban design study of Alewife.  
A site plan was done.  He asked if that is the Alewife plan?  Ms. Peters responded that when they 
refer to the Alewife District Plan, it is the plan that came out of the Envision process that Utile 
helped with. She said that if it is in reference to current zoning, the existing Concord Alewife of 
2010 is still the plan on the book.  She said that as they have spoken with developers in the 
community, they have been pushing the goals and community aspirations from the new Alewife 
plan into the conversation.  Councillor Carlone said that is priority one given the we are getting 
development proposals.   
 
Councillor Carlone said that starting a study could be three meetings.  He noted that he would 
like a schedule of when things will be done.  He said that it would be great to say, “These 3 
should be done in 6 months.”  He said that we are well past starting.  He stated that starting is a 
good thing but literally it does not really say anything.  Ms. Farooq explained that the one reason 
they referenced everything to starting rather than concluding is because a large percentage of the 
actions are ongoing actions.  She said that some actions will never be complete.  She said that 
there are things that will have a start and end such as open space planning updates.  She said that 
a larger set of actions are ongoing items that will not be completed so that is why they linked 
everything to starting the work.  Councillor Carlone said that there is no idea how far along the 
work is.  He said that words are not a plan, words are not a strategy.  He said it would be great to 
receive updates every 3-6 months, specifically on what is being currently worked on and what is 
being accomplished.   
 
Councillor Zondervan thanked the staff for the update and added his voice to the call for more 
regular updates and the addition of dashboards. He stated that the Committee heard about 

conflicts between different roles and one way to address the issue is do holistic planning.  He 
said what is great about Envision Cambridge is that the first step in holistic planning has been 
accomplished.  He said that the next step is to evaluate our actions against all the goals.  He 
stated that a lot of actions are driven by developers who buy property and then come to the City 
Council.  He said that if we were having a more robust discussion in the context of Envision, we 
would take those proposals and air them to Envision.  He said that the public should not feel so 
left out and powerless.  He said that there needs to be more effort into evaluating plans and 
decision going forward against these goals.  He said that we do not seem to be going through any 
kind of guided exercise that says how to adjust the zoning to move forward in a way to 
accomplish goals. He said that there are constantly individual issues that ensue an argument 
when we should evaluate all issues against zoning and goals and then see how zoning can be 
more aligned with goals.  He asked how we create a real planning process based on goals 
developed through Envision that produces a plan through zoning that lays out what we are going 
to do where in the city.  Ms. Farooq said that as it relates to a dashboard, they are working on 
putting together a direct dashboard and are now in conversation with IT Department to figure out 
how to do the technical work and get it on CDD’s website.  She said that it will take several 
months, and the hope is to have it available sometime next year.  In terms of zoning and 
evaluation actions, Ms. Farooq said that there are actions that are identified, and it is easy to 
proceed one by one through these.  She said it is more challenging when it is a development or 
rezoning proposal. At the staff level they built in that thinking into it, but they do not specifically 
do holistic planning.  She said that they could utilize that method.  She asked Jeff Robert to add 
to this.  She said that there are two ways to think about how to take the conceptual citywide plan 
and translate that into zoning and it is not a small exercise. She said that the alternative is to take 
every proposal before CDD (whether coming from staff, the City Council, residents or 
developers) and then sieve it through the sift of Envision and see what the picture looks like. She 
said that we must pick one path or the other. She said that she would appreciate guidance.  Mr. 
Roberts said that in terms of overall strategy, it is important to establish planning goals and then 
evaluate the policies, including the Zoning Ordinance, to understand how that aligns with goals.  
He said that much of that work has been done in the Envision Cambridge plan.  There are 30 
specific actions that related to zoning.  He said that one approach to tackling those is to prioritize 
and to work through them in some order.  He said that the alternative approach is to say, “Put 
everything else on hold so we can do a fully comprehensive reconsideration of the whole Zoning 
Ordinance which can have benefit, but it will take a lot of time.” He said that approach of 
focusing efforts on things that we want accomplished the most is a good strategy but if we want 
to take a different tact, we could but it would come with a lot of tradeoffs. 
 
Councillor Zondervan stated that he is conflicted because he understands the challenge and yet at 
the same time, he thinks how can we not do both things.  He said that he struggles to reconcile 
these two approaches.  Ms. Farooq said that when thinking about capacity and that as a 
constraining factor, it is not just if CDD has enough staff in the zoning division, it is also if there 
is enough staff in other department who are analyzing each of the components.  She said it is a 
mushroom as well as capacity at Planning Board, Ordinance Committee, etc.  She said that 
making changes incrementally has served us quite well. 
 
Vice Mayor Mallon stated that as it relates to staff capacity, she would love to see a dashboard of 
the Envision goals and actions and where we are on each one of them. She said that she wonders 

about staff capacity to do something like that.  She asked if we should entertain the idea of hiring 
someone outside to put together a dashboard. She said that she would like to think about how to 
make that come to fruition without adding burden onto CDD.  As it relates to regular progress 
reports, she stated that she has some questions.  She wondered if they could be updated.  She 
asked if there is a way to update progress reports via color-coding with a small blurb of what is 
happening.  Something that would indicate where we are in the absence of a dashboard would be 
helpful.  Vice Mayor Mallon asked if there is there a way to use the committees to move work 
forward.  She asked how the City Council committee chairs can have more of a partner with 
action items and move them forward in that way.  Ms. Farooq said that it is a great idea.  She 
said it is a key way to build two-way communication around specific topics and actions.  She 
said that the committees grapple with the same kind of restraint in doing multiple things at the 
same time. She welcomes that partnership. Vice Mayor Mallon asked if there is a way that 
progress reports could be updated to show a visual representation of where the work stands. Ms. 
Farooq said that they will do the updates.  Ms. Farooq asked Ms. Peters to provide a sense of 
how long this will take.  She stated that we must keep in mind that more detailed updates involve 
more departments than CDD.  She said that they will work on it and maybe take the approach of 
sending them forward as they are done. Ms. Peters added that they can color code the actions to 
correspond to the pie chart but if more detail is added they will have to reach out to staff and 
department heads which would take more time.  She said that CDD can send color coding first 
and then as they go through each planning topic, they will forward to the City Council.     
 
Councillor Nolan said that we have talked about dashboards and she believed that they are in the 
process.  Ms. Farooq said that it is in the process and she does not believe additional resources 
are necessary.  Ms. Peters said that there is a fulltime senior planner that is charged in the 
Envision implementation and moving to forward.  He is getting the data organized to track the 
indicators to ultimately go onto a dashboard.  The next step is the web design and development 
phase.  In the interim, progress reports will fill the gaps. Councillor Nolan said that the data is 
already partly there but it is not tied to the actual item so that has been challenging.  She stated 
that other data would not have to be gathered.  She said that we could use the sustainability 
platform and use for other categories.  Melissa Peters stated that the intention is to use the City’s 
web infrastructure for Envision so they have more control over updates.  Councillor Nolan stated 
that she would like a timeline prospectively for actions to the completion or next steps of action 
items.  Ms. Farooq responded that they aim to create the pool of priority items but retain the 
flexibility to be responsive to the needs of each item.  She said that it is hard to ascribe timelines 
that go beyond the fiscal year unless it is to an item that is an ongoing item or an item that they 
have started.  She said that for the items that have begun, they could try to layout a timeline 
guideline, but it will be challenging and difficult to say that for all the other items that have not 
begun, when they would begin.  Councillor Nolan said that actions are related to strategies which 
are tied to a goal and the goals are long-term. She said that there are some goals that are longer 
term.     
 
Councillor Nolan stated that the Envision document should be all of the City Council and City 
staff guiding document to keep the focus on all of the goals that are encompassed.  She said that 
as it relates to the various working groups and department heads, is there anything that the City 
Council should be thinking about moving forward.  Ms. Farooq said that the key conversation 
that has been had with department heads have been around action items and ensuring that they 

are attaching updates.  In terms of what would be most useful, Ms. Farooq said that the most 
useful feedback is to have clear priorities of the City Council as a body.  In terms of the working 
groups, she said that they were informed about this discussion.  Ms. Peters said that they were 
notified of the hearing today and some members indicated that they would be listening in. She 
noted that since December 2018, CDD has not regrouped with the working groups.   
 
Councillor Nolan said that this is a good start for her.  She said it is a document that could be 
more specific.  She noted that there has been some frustration about the range of actions.  She 
said that it would make sense for the Committee to recommend to the full City Council that the 
work continue in the committees that are set up around these areas.   
 
Councillor Nolan made the following motion: 
 
ORDERED:  That the Neighborhood and Long-Term Planning Committee, Public Facilities, 

Arts and Celebrations Committee recommend to the full City Council that a 
response to each of the six areas of the Envision plan to include holding 
committee meetings on each of the planning topics as they are updated and ready 
to be discussed, be referred to respective committees related to the goals and plans 
as follows: 

 

 

 

 

 

Climate and Environment to the Health and Environment Committee 

Community Wellbeing to the Civic Unity Committee 

Economy to the Economic Development and University Relations Committee 

Housing to the Housing Committee  

Mobility to the Transportation & Public Utilities Committee 
 
Urban Form to the Neighborhood and Long Term Planning, Public Facilities, Arts 

and Celebrations Committee  

 

 
Councillor Carlone stated that he agrees with the Councillor Nolan’s motion.  He said that this 
was tried before the final report came out when it was in draft form, but it was not completely 
successful.  He said that this is the right next step.  He said that CDD has both a long-term 
planning and instantaneous response responsibility that the City Council asks for things and the 
City Council expects it yesterday.  He said that this department is the most unique in that way.  
He said that it makes sense and it might be a way to help staff understand the point of view of the 
City Council.   
 
Councillor Zondervan stated that the City Council can set a goal as a City Council to have a 
process to change City Councils to reflect the Envision goals.  He said that there is a discrepancy 
between the current City Council goals and the Envision goals and maybe that is the place to 
start as a body to do this work.  

 
Councillor Nolan asked Councillor Zondervan if he was proposing adding language to the 
motion or would that be a separate meeting.  Councillor Zondervan responded that the 
Committee can recommend to the full City Council to initiate a process to look at the current 
City Council goals and look at the Envision goals and decide on City Council goals going 
forward rather than perpetuating the current discrepancies.   
 
Councillor Nolan stated that the words “that it work on establishing long-term goals” could be 
added to the motion in the first paragraph. Councillor Zondervan stated that this works but he 
suggested changing the word “establish” to the word “updating.” 
 
Vice Mayor Mallon asked the Chair to re-read the amended wording for the motion.   
 
Councillor Nolan read the following motion: 
 
ORDERED:  That the Neighborhood and Long-Term Planning Committee, Public Facilities, 

Arts and Celebrations Committee recommend to the full City Council that it 
update its goals and that a response to each of the six areas of the Envision plan to 
include holding committee meetings on each of the planning topics as they are 
updated and ready to be discussed, be referred to respective committees related to 
the goals and plans as follows: 

Climate and Environment to the Health and Environment Committee 

Community Wellbeing to the Civic Unity Committee 

Economy to the Economic Development and University Relations Committee 

Housing to the Housing Committee  

 

 

 

 

 

Mobility to the Transportation & Public Utilities Committee 
 
Urban Form to the Neighborhood and Long Term Planning, Public Facilities, Arts 

and Celebrations Committee  

 

 
Vice Mayor Mallon suggested that a motion be made to extend the meeting by 10 minutes.   
 
Councillor Nolan made a motion to extend the hearing for 10 minutes. 
 
The roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
YEAS:  
 
 
 
NAYS: 

Councillor Nolan, Councillor Carlone, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor 
Zondervan 

-4 

-0 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-1 

Councillor McGovern  

 
ABSENT: 
 
and the motion passed on the affirmative vote of four members. 
 
Vice Mayor Mallon said that she is uncomfortable to speak about the City Council goals in this 
setting. She said that she is comfortable moving forward with the motion by Councillor Nolan.  
She stated that if we want to City Council goals, she believes that it should happen in a different 
committee and she believes that Mayor Siddiqui had spoken about a treat at some point to talk 
about goals. She said she is not comfortable combining those two things.  She said that the 
Committee should focus on moving progress to the committees as originally suggested.   
 
Councillor Zondervan responded that the Committee is not suggesting to the City Council what 
to do other than to initiate a process to evaluate its updated goals.   
 
Councillor Carlone said that we are only talking about planning goals, not the City Council’s 
twelve goals that will probably be refined in the next few months.  He said that we are talking as 
it relates to Envision and it is a Policy Order that will be discussed by the full City Council.  He 
said that this is a good discussion.   
 
Councillor Zondervan stated that the City Council should update its goals but exactly how we 
want to go about that is a topic for another discussion.  He said that he is just saying that we 
should look at the goals.   
 
Councillor Nolan stated her agreement with Vice Mayor Mallon that these should be two 
separate motions.  She stated that she would like to vote on her originally proposed motion 
which reads as follows: 
 
ORDERED:  That the Neighborhood and Long-Term Planning Committee, Public Facilities, 

Arts and Celebrations Committee recommend to the full City Council that a 
response to each of the six areas of the Envision plan to include holding 
committee meetings on each of the planning topics as they are updated and ready 
to be discussed, be referred to respective committees related to the goals and plans 
as follows: 

 

 

 

 

 

Climate and Environment to the Health and Environment Committee 

Community Wellbeing to the Civic Unity Committee 

Economy to the Economic Development and University Relations Committee 

Housing to the Housing Committee  

Mobility to the Transportation & Public Utilities Committee 
 

Urban Form to the Neighborhood and Long Term Planning, Public Facilities, Arts 

and Celebrations Committee  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-1 

-0 

-4 

Councillor McGovern  

Councillor Nolan, Councillor Carlone, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor 
Zondervan 

 
The roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
YEAS:  
 
 
 
NAYS: 
 
ABSENT: 
 
and the motion passed on the affirmative vote of four members. 
 
Councillor Nolan asked Councillor Zondervan if he would like to submit another motion. 
Councillor Zondervan responded in the negative.   
 
Councillor Nolan thanked all those present for their attendance. 
 
Councillor Nolan made a motion for adjournment. 
 
The roll was called and resulted as follows: 
 
YEAS:  
 
 
 
NAYS: 
 
ABSENT: 
 
and the motion passed on the affirmative vote of four members. 
 
The meeting adjourned at 4:08 p.m.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Councillor Nolan, Councillor Carlone, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor 
Zondervan 

________________________________ 
Councillor Patricia Nolan, Chair 
Neighborhood & Long-Term Planning; 
Public Facilities, Arts and Celebrations Committee 

Councillor McGovern  

For the Committee, 

-4 

-1 

-0 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

