Update from the Community Development Department PB #359 (continued from 2/25/2020) -- 75-109 Smith Place 8 P R O C E E D I N G S
but I'm an attorney with offices located at 907 Massachusetts Avenue, and I represent The Davis Companies, the applicant of this case.
been incorporated into the zoning ordinance. So we've been treading a fine line between the Concord Avenue study guidelines that are embodied in the ordinance and what we're
It was a building more typical of what you see out in the Smith Place area today. It was a building surrounded by surface parking, and it was a reasonable attempt to build a
number of buildings in this area -- directly across the street for instance, at 10 Wilson Road, Board members have had an opportunity to go out to the site recently -- you'll
architects designing the building we're presenting here tonight at 75 109 Smith Place. As Jim mentioned, my colleague, Brian Cook, is also here as well. He may join
you see with these purple lines are the Envision the Future street alignments for Fawcett, for Smith Place, and for Wilson Road and Adley Road.
street alignments for Fawcett, for Smith Place, and for Wilson Road and Adley Road. And a big part of the project, if you remember
time -- shows how cyclists would access the site off of Smith Place via this five-foot wide bike path. That bike path is roughly in the alignment of
undergrounded, and the curb is slightly realigned, we'll see the final desired alignment along Smith Place. If you give that one more click forward, there's a
demonstrate how we're very much improving the number of curb cuts along Smith Place in front of the building, and that there are no existing curb cuts along Adley Road, and some
go quickly through a couple of these. Again, here's a C- section showing this same information. It's Smith Place, including that current utility pole that eventually will go
This slide shows how the site would look in the future with the realization of Wilson Road and Fawcett Street as they were extended, how that green space would be
preserved, and how the vehicles would enter the site off of the newly conceived Fawcett Street, the elevated sidewalks that could be around the building on Wilson and Smith Place.
the newly conceived Fawcett Street, the elevated sidewalks that could be around the building on Wilson and Smith Place. And then one more click?
And then if you click forward? This is a view coming up Smith Place. You see the more articulated penthouse, the more articulate end wall of
And then one more click? We're really trying to walk you through the pedestrian experience coming up Smith Place.
into one project are bringing those curb cuts from five to one on Smith Place. As you've just seen, there are new sidewalks and
As you've just seen, there are new sidewalks and landscaping on Smith Place, in the areas as well where there aren't any sidewalks in existence today.
heard and been experiencing through the materials submitted by the project, are providing for a wider Smith Place for bicycle lanes, and allowing for the future alignment of
bicycle lanes, and allowing for the future alignment of Fawcett Street, Adley and Wilson Road, and creating that block structure for the street corridors that are planned
people are really asking a lot of questions, you know, "Is Smith Place and Fawcett Street in this area?" And that's all separated. So there's a separate sewer line from a
several months ago. It certainly will be an improvement to Fawcett Street and Smith Place, And you know, I guess a minor question: It still
The other thing that concerned me a little bit was the entrance to Smith Place from the shared private garage. The radius seems to be kind of bad on the side of the curb
