Toomey, Councillor Zondervan Item Number 20-08, regarding working with neighbors in the vicinity of Eustis Street to implement traffic calming measures on this street.
Toomey, Councillor Zondervan numbered 11 Education Street; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works. No response has been
YEAS: premises numbered 10 Acorn Park Drive; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works. No
YEAS: numbered 40 Thorndike Street; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works. No response has been
Jul 27, 2020 16. A communication was received from Susan Labandibar, 9A Forest Street, regarding Donovan zoning petition for affordable housing.
Jul 27, 2020 21. A communication was received from Grant Emison, 146 Rindge Avenue, regarding support of Black Response position on Policing in Cambridge.
Jul 27, 2020 46. A communication was received from Carolyn Magid, 71 Reed Street, regarding Policy Order #'s 10, 8 and 14.
Library, the Library Board of Trustees, and any other appropriate City personnel to consider formally renaming the Central Square Library in honor of Maria Baldwin and Rep. John Lewis, with the building being known as “The Maria Baldwin and Rep. John Lewis Library and Center for African
renaming the Central Square Library in honor of Maria Baldwin and Rep. John Lewis, with the building being known as “The Maria Baldwin and Rep. John Lewis Library and Center for African American/Black History and Culture” going forward, or to otherwise find another suitable location
residents who live in the neighboring community and the many individuals who commute through the area via the Alewife Red Line, the Minuteman Bikeway, Rindge Avenue and Alewife Brook Parkway POR 2020 #176
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
(Calendar Item #5) from 10/7/2019 Central Square Library branch. Vice Mayor Mallon, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (Calendar Item #8)
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Report on the potential for implementing sufficient traffic-calming solutions on Upton Street. Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (O-7) from 1/27/2020
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Councillor McGovern (O-8) from 1/27/2020 Report on working with the residents in the vicinity of Eustis Street to implement traffic calming measures on this street.
Councillor Zondervan, Councillor Carlone (O-8) from 5/18/2020 Churchill Avenue” to “Matignon High School at Churchill Avenue”. Councillor Toomey (O-5) from 6/1/2020
neighborhoods, including the Port (Harvard and Windsor), the Coast (Putnam and Magazine), Brattle Street and North Cambridge (Rindge and Massachusetts Ave.). Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor Simmons, Councillor Nolan, Vice Mayor Mallon
fines and fees in excess of $10. Certain neighborhoods are disproportionately impacted by library fines. Cambridge patrons with Central Square Branch as their home library account for 16% of all blocked cards, even though Central Square only comprises 9% of Library circulation.
fines. Cambridge patrons with Central Square Branch as their home library account for 16% of all blocked cards, even though Central Square only comprises 9% of Library circulation. Similarly, Cambridge patrons with O’Connell Branch as their home library account for 9% of all
all blocked cards, even though Central Square only comprises 9% of Library circulation. Similarly, Cambridge patrons with O’Connell Branch as their home library account for 9% of all blocked cards, even though O’Connell only comprises 5% of Library circulation.
Please find attached a response to Awaiting Report Item Number 20-08, regarding working with neighbors in the vicinity of Eustis Street to implement traffic calming measures on this street, received from Assistant City Manager for Community Development Iram Farooq.
Re: Awaiting Report 20-08 regarding traffic calming measures on Eustis Street Date:
In response to Awaiting Report 20-8, dated February 3, 2020, regarding working with neighbors in the vicinity of Eustis Street to implement traffic calming measures on this street, we report the following.
Department (TPT) and the Department of Public Works (DPW) have reviewed the request for traffic calming measures and roadway repair on Eustis Street. Typically, larger traffic calming infrastructure changes to streets are completed in
conjunction with other roadwork such as repaving, street and sidewalk reconstruction. At this time no such roadway work is scheduled for Eustis Street. We have added the street to the list of requests for traffic calming interventions and these serve as considerations when
construction to make sure neighborhood residents have the opportunity to participate in the discussion of possible improvements to Eustis Street. In the meantime, DPW will complete roadway patching on Eustis Street in early fall. The
the discussion of possible improvements to Eustis Street. In the meantime, DPW will complete roadway patching on Eustis Street in early fall. The work is being scheduled, recognizing the backlog that resulted from the construction
The goal of traffic calming is to reduce speeds on a street. In addition to the interventions noted above, Eustis Street will also have its speed regulations reduced from 25 MPH to 20 MPH as part of a larger city-wide speed reduction program. This change is expected to be
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 11 Education Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material specified by the
Cambridge, MA 02139 RE: DCR Curb Cut Permit Application, 11 Education Street Members of the City Council,
area of Cambridge. This facility will serve as the primary operations center for DCR in the Greater Cambridge and Boston Region. Among the many responsibilities of DCR is the safety, maintenance, and repairs of parklands and parkways, such as Memorial Drive, Alewife Brook
Greater Cambridge and Boston Region. Among the many responsibilities of DCR is the safety, maintenance, and repairs of parklands and parkways, such as Memorial Drive, Alewife Brook Parkway, Land Boulevard, and Fresh Pond Parkway. Our largest special events, such as the July
maintenance, and repairs of parklands and parkways, such as Memorial Drive, Alewife Brook Parkway, Land Boulevard, and Fresh Pond Parkway. Our largest special events, such as the July Cambridge DPW and TP+TD staff have generously given their time to assist us with this
Parkway, Land Boulevard, and Fresh Pond Parkway. Our largest special events, such as the July Cambridge DPW and TP+TD staff have generously given their time to assist us with this request, which presents a unique design challenge. At the end of the facility’s service driveway,
perpendicular to the curb line. City staff expressed a strong desire to retain the tree. DCR staff met with Cambridge several times – once at 147 Hampshire Street and twice on site – to brainstorm how to build the
City staff expressed a strong desire to retain the tree. DCR staff met with Cambridge several times – once at 147 Hampshire Street and twice on site – to brainstorm how to build the driveway around the tree.
Here are a few additional notes on this request: • The North Point Maintenance Facility does have an additional egress onto Education Street, but that entrance is intended for visitors and passenger cars. The North Point
• The North Point Maintenance Facility does have an additional egress onto Education Street, but that entrance is intended for visitors and passenger cars. The North Point Boulevard access is much closer to the operations vehicle storage and service and
June 23, 2020 Jeff Perenti for a Curb Cut at the location of 11 Education Street with a Frontage of 30', Setback 360', Distance from surrounding structures 4', Length 230', Width 25' and a total Square Footage of 5750.
Cambridge, MA 02139 RE: Proposed Curb Cut at 11 Education Street (Application 77480) Dear Mayor Siddiqui, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillors Carlone, McGovern, Nolan, Simmons, Sobrinho-
Wheeler, Toomey, and Zondervan: The East Cambridge Planning Team (ECPT) Board voted to approve the proposed curb cut at 11 Education Street at its July 15, 2020 meeting. The approval is based on the revised plan below that saves
The East Cambridge Planning Team (ECPT) Board voted to approve the proposed curb cut at 11 Education Street at its July 15, 2020 meeting. The approval is based on the revised plan below that saves the 9” caliper Little Leave Linden tree, which was to be removed in the original application.
Education Street at its July 15, 2020 meeting. The approval is based on the revised plan below that saves the 9” caliper Little Leave Linden tree, which was to be removed in the original application. We would like to thank City Engineer Kathy Watkins for her efforts in saving the tree.
cc: Anthony I. Wilson, City Clerk, clerk@cambridgema.gov East End House 105 Spring Street, Cambridge MA 02141 ecplanningteam@gmail.com
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 10 Acorn Park Drive, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material specified by the
Dear Mr. Niranjan: On behalf of SXC Alewife Hotel, LLC, BSC Group has completed the City of Cambridge’s online application for a curb cut at 10 Acorn Park Drive to service the AC Marriott Hotel.
On behalf of SXC Alewife Hotel, LLC, BSC Group has completed the City of Cambridge’s online application for a curb cut at 10 Acorn Park Drive to service the AC Marriott Hotel. The AC Hotel is located within the Cambridge Discovery Park development and currently
online application for a curb cut at 10 Acorn Park Drive to service the AC Marriott Hotel. The AC Hotel is located within the Cambridge Discovery Park development and currently has access from Discovery Way, a private way, running parallel to Acorn Park Drive.
The AC Hotel is located within the Cambridge Discovery Park development and currently has access from Discovery Way, a private way, running parallel to Acorn Park Drive. The proposed curb cut and driveway have been designed to provide one-way only access
The proposed curb cut and driveway have been designed to provide one-way only access from Acorn Park Drive in accordance with the City of Cambridge requirements and the comments communicated at our site meetings in order to improve site access for hotel guests
and deliveries, and to provide improved emergency vehicle access to the Hotel. Visitors to the Hotel exiting Route 2 via the Alewife Station Access Road currently travel along Acorn Park Drive to Discovery Way in order to access the Hotel. The proposed drive
Visitors to the Hotel exiting Route 2 via the Alewife Station Access Road currently travel along Acorn Park Drive to Discovery Way in order to access the Hotel. The proposed drive will have improved wayfinding and access to the Hotel by providing direct access to the
will have improved wayfinding and access to the Hotel by providing direct access to the Hotel from Acorn Park Drive, including for ambulances, fire trucks and other emergency vehicles.
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 40 Thorndike Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material specified by the
application package being resubmitted by Legatt McCall Properties for the proposed improvements at 40 Thorndike Street in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The proposed project consists of renovating and repurposing the former Edward J. Sullivan Court House,
Thorndike Street in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The proposed project consists of renovating and repurposing the former Edward J. Sullivan Court House, which received a Special Permit from the Cambridge Planning Board in October 2014. This redevelopment
Nitsch Engineering is submitting the attached curb cut plot plans to supplement the curb cut application package being submitted by Legatt McCall Properties for the proposed improvements at 40 Thorndike Street in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
February 27, 2020 Patrick Conte for a Curb Cut at the location of 40 Thorndike Street with a Frontage of 201.63', Setback 26', Distance from surrounding structures 26', Length 26', Width 22' and a total Square Footage of 572.
Cambridge, MA 02139 RE: Proposed Curb Cut at 40 Thorndike Street (Application #60903) Dear Mayor Siddiqui, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillors Carlone, McGovern, Nolan, Simmons, Sobrinho-
Wheeler, Toomey, and Zondervan: The East Cambridge Planning Team (ECPT) Board voted to approve the proposed curb cut at 40 Thorndike Street at its July 15, 2020 meeting.
The East Cambridge Planning Team (ECPT) Board voted to approve the proposed curb cut at 40 Thorndike Street at its July 15, 2020 meeting. As part of this approval, the Board requests that traffic flow from 40 Thorndike be directed east of Third
Thorndike Street at its July 15, 2020 meeting. As part of this approval, the Board requests that traffic flow from 40 Thorndike be directed east of Third Street toward First Street and Land Boulevard, away from the center of the neighborhood (see attached
As part of this approval, the Board requests that traffic flow from 40 Thorndike be directed east of Third Street toward First Street and Land Boulevard, away from the center of the neighborhood (see attached map). First Street is planned to be connected directly to Msg. O’Brien Highway as part of the Green Line
Street toward First Street and Land Boulevard, away from the center of the neighborhood (see attached map). First Street is planned to be connected directly to Msg. O’Brien Highway as part of the Green Line Extension project before the 40 Thorndike Street project is completed. Therefore travel on Third Street to
map). First Street is planned to be connected directly to Msg. O’Brien Highway as part of the Green Line Extension project before the 40 Thorndike Street project is completed. Therefore travel on Third Street to reach the highway is no longer necessary. We believe this proposed traffic flow will mitigate the effect of
cc: Anthony I. Wilson, City Clerk, clerk@cambridgema.gov East End House 105 Spring Street, Cambridge MA 02141 ecplanningteam@gmail.com
Garage East End House 105 Spring Street, Cambridge MA 02141 ecplanningteam@gmail.com
curb cuts unless requested by the owner. East End House 105 Spring Street, Cambridge MA 02141 ecplanningteam@gmail.com
Packet Pg. 567 surge in crime in Central Square, something not easily addressed by simply duct taping social workers to it. The CPD are an active community driven entity without whom our district would absolutely collapse.
I implore the City to move aggressively toward creating more equitable use of streets. Streets for people, local residents, not speeding drivers. Boston put in an entire network of protected cycle lanes - overnight. Cambridge could do the same on Mass Ave and Cambridge Street.
residents, not speeding drivers. Boston put in an entire network of protected cycle lanes - overnight. Cambridge could do the same on Mass Ave and Cambridge Street. Thank you for again reading my concerns. I will surely being these up again at upcoming council meetings.
Mark Tang I understand that an application for a curb cut for 40 Thorndike (f/k/a Sullivan Courthouse) is before the City Council tonight. I reside at 32 Spring Street which is directly across from the Sullivan Courthouse sally port. I am writing to
I understand that an application for a curb cut for 40 Thorndike (f/k/a Sullivan Courthouse) is before the City Council tonight. I reside at 32 Spring Street which is directly across from the Sullivan Courthouse sally port. I am writing to provide my support for the curb cut application. I look forward to working the project proponent during the
Allow me to introduce myself: I am a Cambridgeport resident and the President and Chair of the Board of ImprovBoston, a non-profit theater that has called Cambridge home for nearly 40 years. For the past decade, IB has been an important cultural anchor of the Central Square business district. Every week, we brought over
ImprovBoston, a non-profit theater that has called Cambridge home for nearly 40 years. For the past decade, IB has been an important cultural anchor of the Central Square business district. Every week, we brought over Central Square's coffee shops, restaurants, small businesses and bars. We are proud to be a part of our vibrant
IB has been an important cultural anchor of the Central Square business district. Every week, we brought over Central Square's coffee shops, restaurants, small businesses and bars. We are proud to be a part of our vibrant But since March, IB--like the other arts organizations in Cambridge--has faced an unprecedented crisis. On
Duncan MacLaury (24 Dover Street, Cambridge, MA 02140) Packet Pg. 585
My apologies - a work commitment has come up and I am unable to testify. Please see below my My name is Ronnie Millar, 31 Jackson Street, Cambridge I wish to speak about Policy orders #11 and 12 related to sale of the WR Grace site in North Cambridge.
Dear Mayor Siddiqui, Councilors and City Manager DePasquale, My name is Eric Grunebaum and I live at 98 Montgomery Street. I’m a member of the Friends of Alewife Advisory Board, and a long time contributor to City boards including the Trolley Square Committee, the Envision Alewife Working Group
My name is Eric Grunebaum and I live at 98 Montgomery Street. I’m a member of the Friends of Alewife Advisory Board, and a long time contributor to City boards including the Trolley Square Committee, the Envision Alewife Working Group and the NetZero initiative.
My apologies - a work commitment has come up and I am unable to testify. Please see below my My name is Ronnie Millar, 31 Jackson Street, Cambridge I wish to speak about Policy orders #11 and 12 related to sale of the WR Grace site in North Cambridge.
WHEREAS: around Central Square, where he would frequent the Middle East, the Tavern in the Square, the Whole Foods, and where he was regularly seen riding his bike up to the
Square, the Whole Foods, and where he was regularly seen riding his bike up to the age of 81, and more recently zipping throughout Central Square and Harvard Square on his electric blue scooter; and
local figure, Maria L. Baldwin, and a national figure, Rep. John Lewis, who both embodied the Cambridge ideals of fairness, education, diversity, and inclusion; and The Central Square Library is the ideal location for this re-dedication, as it is already
embodied the Cambridge ideals of fairness, education, diversity, and inclusion; and The Central Square Library is the ideal location for this re-dedication, as it is already the home to the Lewis Room, which in 1977 was dedicated in honor of the late Jerome
Library; and In March of 2014, the Central Square Library also unveiled a commemorative plaque named the Leroy Cragwell African-American History Book Collection in honor of the
late Mr. Leroy Cragwell, a senior resident of color who gave tirelessly to the City of Cambridge, and in recognition of the fact that the Central Square Library has been the center of countless community gatherings over the years, particularly for the Black
That the City Manager be and hereby is requested to consult with the Director of the Cambridge Public Library, the Library Board of Trustees, and any other appropriate City personnel to consider formally renaming the Central Square Library in honor of
Cambridge Public Library, the Library Board of Trustees, and any other appropriate City personnel to consider formally renaming the Central Square Library in honor of Maria Baldwin and Rep. John Lewis, with the building being known as “The Maria
City personnel to consider formally renaming the Central Square Library in honor of Maria Baldwin and Rep. John Lewis, with the building being known as “The Maria Baldwin and Rep. John Lewis Library and Center for African American/Black History
and reopening this land continues to be an issue of health, social and environmental equity in Cambridge, as it is the closest green space to approximately 4,000 Cambridge residents living in affordable housing along Rindge Avenue; and
equity in Cambridge, as it is the closest green space to approximately 4,000 Cambridge residents living in affordable housing along Rindge Avenue; and Jerry’s Pond and the land surrounding it were historically known as “The Great
residents living in affordable housing along Rindge Avenue; and Jerry’s Pond and the land surrounding it were historically known as “The Great Swamp” and were tidal marshlands connected to the Mystic River via the Alewife
Department and the Department of Conservation and Recreation, representatives from Fresh Pond apartments, 402 Rindge Avenue, Jefferson Park and Jackson Place, Friends of Jerry’s Pond, Alewife Study Group, Alewife Neighbors Inc., Friends of
Fresh Pond apartments, 402 Rindge Avenue, Jefferson Park and Jackson Place, Friends of Jerry’s Pond, Alewife Study Group, Alewife Neighbors Inc., Friends of Alewife/Green Cambridge and other relevant stakeholders regarding next steps for
surrounding landscape for residents who live in the neighboring community and the many individuals who commute through the area via the Alewife Red Line, the Minuteman Bikeway, Rindge Avenue and Alewife Brook Parkway; and
many individuals who commute through the area via the Alewife Red Line, the Minuteman Bikeway, Rindge Avenue and Alewife Brook Parkway; and That the City Manager be and hereby is requested to report back to the City Council on
the issues that are outlined which the safe streets, the biking, the affordable housing. And another comment: as we move forward on the Tobin Vassal Lane project, as the Council also recognizes that we're now working to see if we can make that project even more beneficial to the city by working to acquire the armory, it really needs a full court
Christopher Schmidt 30:26 Christopher Schmidt 17 Laurel Street. Thank you very much for your time and for having this meeting. I have been active in Cambridge politics for the past several years, having gotten involved in Cambridge politics after hearing
Christopher Schmidt 17 Laurel Street. Thank you very much for your time and for having this meeting. I have been active in Cambridge politics for the past several years, having gotten involved in Cambridge politics after hearing and seeing the city manager's reticence to move forward with the outcome of the Universal Broadband Task Force.
Thank you for your testimony. Michael Goodman, followed by Alan Green. Michael Goodman 33:25 Hi, my name is Mike Goodman. I live at 237 Franklin Street apartment 811. So I have a prepared statement. So
Michael Goodman 33:25 Hi, my name is Mike Goodman. I live at 237 Franklin Street apartment 811. So I have a prepared statement. So sorry if I drift around, but I also like, I kind of don't - I'm trying to catch on, but like some of the wonky details, I'm
in Florida, why on earth can't the so-called People's Republic of Cambridge? But grocery stores of course aren't the only casualty of our current system. From EMF to Green Street, the so called "cultural district" is losing art space after art space. Faced with a similar problem, Vancouver opened a city owned art space that provides affordable
or non verbally. Thank you. Richard Crushnick 41:35 Richard Crushnick, 20 Oak Street. I wanted to echo the comments of Dennis Carlone and Ben Simon. I agree with
Richard Crushnick 41:35 Richard Crushnick, 20 Oak Street. I wanted to echo the comments of Dennis Carlone and Ben Simon. I agree with some of the things Ben suggested that other cities are doing, not all of them, but the general idea that Ben is
February 19, 2020 Lee Farris 44:49 Good morning, Mayor and councillors and Madam Chair. Lee Farris 269 Norfolk Street. I ask that this committee
Lee Farris 44:49 Good morning, Mayor and councillors and Madam Chair. Lee Farris 269 Norfolk Street. I ask that this committee not take a vote yet on extending the manager's contract, and that instead the committee work to put in place a
Heather Hoffman 48:24 Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street. And I want to talk about what kind of manager we need to take us into the 21st century. For about 40 years, because as was observed, Cambridge was in terrible fiscal shape, our policy has been
Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street. And I want to talk about what kind of manager we need to take us into the 21st century. For about 40 years, because as was observed, Cambridge was in terrible fiscal shape, our policy has been shaped by getting money. It has not been shaped by figuring out how to make this a good place to live in, for the
Saul Tannenbaum 51:39 Hi, I'm Saul Tannenbaum, 16 Cottage Street. Madam Chair, councillors, I'd like to address the city manager's request for extension and that letter, which I found really quite shocking. First, I'll just pose a question: Should the
Carolyn Magid 54:44 Hi, thank you for having me. I'm Carolyn Magid. I live at 71 Reed Street in North Cambridge. I, first of all, I agree with the more negative view of how well Cambridge is serving low and middle income people that's been expressed
Hi, thank you for having me. I'm Carolyn Magid. I live at 71 Reed Street in North Cambridge. I, first of all, I agree with the more negative view of how well Cambridge is serving low and middle income people that's been expressed by many people here. In fact, it seems to me it's hard to miss that that's true. Secondly, I want to agree with the need
Our next speaker is Charles Franklin. Charles Franklin 59:31 Morning Council, thank you for having this hearing. I'm Charles Franklin. I live at 160 Hampshire Street. I think a
Charles Franklin 59:31 Morning Council, thank you for having this hearing. I'm Charles Franklin. I live at 160 Hampshire Street. I think a lot of the criticisms I've heard today have been fair, so I don't want to rehash any of them. So I'm going to keep my
Shelly Wortis 1:01:17 Yeah. Shelley Wortis, I live at 106 Berkshire Street in Cambridge. And I agree with a lot of the comments that were made earlier. And specifically, I think we do need to look ahead at what the search process will be, and to consider
Fritz Donovan 1:05:41 Thank you Madam Chair, Fritz Donovan 42 Irving Street, Cambridge. A veteran of the city since I arrived as a deer in the headlights in 1955 as a freshman, and I'm enjoying it well into my 80s now. What we have here is essentially
Phyllis Bretholtz 1:08:31 Good morning, and thank you for extending the time. I'm Phyllis Bretholtz, I live at 65 Antrim Street. I agree with virtually every comment that's been made so far in terms of the need for transparency in evaluating the city
Alice Heller 1:11:41 Hi – Alice Heller, 22 Corporal Burns Road. I want to not repeat all that's been said, though I echo a lot. I want to represent some neighbors who have question the timing of this important meeting and illuminate the fact that I think
Thank you. I'm here in support of extension of Mr. DePasquale contract. My name is Ruth Ryan Allen. I Live on 48 Fenno Street. I've been a member of the planning and focus group for the new inclusionary park being developed and built by the Danehy park space. I'm also on the board of the
Susan Ruff Hello, Susan Ralph. I live at 80 Fawcett Street. I've known Louie for 20 plus years, but I'm also the Director of Cambridge youth soccer. So I've been I'm working with him in his role as city manager.
Hello, Susan Ralph. I live at 80 Fawcett Street. I've known Louie for 20 plus years, but I'm also the Director of Cambridge youth soccer. So I've been I'm working with him in his role as city manager. And I fully support extending his contract for another two years. Louie has a passion for this city.
March 12, 2020 Good evening. My name is Mike Nicoloro, I'm a lifelong resident of East Cambridge 156 Spring Street, and I am in favor of extending city manager's contract beyond 2021. I've had the privilege of
which we have our former state representative and city councilor, Saundra Graham. Mr. Slater. Scott Slater Thank you. Hi, I live at number 10 Bigelow Street. So right around the corner. And I've known Louie
Scott Slater Thank you. Hi, I live at number 10 Bigelow Street. So right around the corner. And I've known Louie for about 25 years in many different capacities. One thing that really doesn't get talked about very
impressive friends of mine who were visiting me from out of town can never believe how quickly things are addressed when you make that call. As a resident, I've lived on Bigelow Street for 30 years next month. And most of my neighbors are older than even me, and are on fixed incomes of some
We have always kept it low and have always had students living there since we've lived there. Many... some of my neighbors on Bigelow Street still rent rooms, because under rent control, they lived in rooming houses but they decided even after they did not have to do that anymore, they
Good evening councillors. I'm here to, to support the extension. And hopefully it's double the time that you have an extension. I've known Louie for probably 55 years roughly. I live at 24 Winter Street in East Cambridge. To have a gentleman like Louie get involved with this city. And the love
that you have an extension. I've known Louie for probably 55 years roughly. I live at 24 Winter Street in East Cambridge. To have a gentleman like Louie get involved with this city. And the love he has for the city, the love he has for children and sports and how we solve [sic], you can't get a
Jim Stockard Hello, my name is Jim Stockard, I live at 141 Oxford Street. I want to acknowledge that I first met Louie as the mortal enemy. He was a coach for the East Cambridge All Star Little League team and
Hello, my name is Jim Stockard, I live at 141 Oxford Street. I want to acknowledge that I first met Louie as the mortal enemy. He was a coach for the East Cambridge All Star Little League team and my son played for the North Cambridge team. So I was started off by being pretty mad at Louie. But
Kevin Donaher Hi, my name is Kevin Donaher and I live at 225 Chestnut Street. I'm here to respectfully ask that you do not renew the contract of city manager Louie DePasquale. I first learned about Louie from my
Susan Freitas Hi, my name is Susan Freitas. I have a home at 140 Thorndike Street, Cambridge, East Cambridge that is. I have a small business in East Cambridge. I've known Louie DePasquale for over 50 years.
Hi, my name is Susan Freitas. I have a home at 140 Thorndike Street, Cambridge, East Cambridge that is. I have a small business in East Cambridge. I've known Louie DePasquale for over 50 years. And I don't know anybody better for this job. He is the most dedicated person I know. He was born
Margaret Drury Good evening, Margaret Drury, 1 Dudley Court Cambridge, Massachusetts. I support the extension of city manager DePasquale's contract. During his tenure, Cambridge has been a very well managed
Good evening, Margaret Drury, 1 Dudley Court Cambridge, Massachusetts. I support the extension of city manager DePasquale's contract. During his tenure, Cambridge has been a very well managed and innovative city. The hallmarks of a successful municipality are the development and
Heather Hoffman Hello, Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street. I want to start out by expressing my disappointment that we're having this meeting at all. We shouldn't be meeting. Patrick Barrett’s right, this is a crisis and
Mike Nakagawa Hello. Mike Nakagawa 51 Madison Avenue. I just like to start by saying that I agree with what Heather Hoffman had said except change the neighborhood to Alewife, and I've lost my spouse to
March 12, 2020 Good evening, Madam Chair, council members. My name is Dennis Benzan. I reside at 1 Pine Street in Cambridge. I want to thank all the speakers that came before me. Rob was actually my son's
having enough social justice. When leaders like Louie have exemplified social and economic justice for much of their life. He's the one that he's walking through Central Square-- Councillor E. Denise Simmons
Thank you. I appreciate it Madam Chair. I just want to end by just saying this. I'm a business owner in Central Square. Our city’s about to face one of the most important and critical challenges in the history of this city. I ask you guys to focus your attention on the challenges that lie ahead. Louie is
the little things that matter. I think some people seem to get their concerns addressed and other people don't. On Sunday, the Number 1 bus is going to no longer make the stops around Harvard Yard. It is going to turn down Dunster Street. I would like – I wish that the city administration and
people don't. On Sunday, the Number 1 bus is going to no longer make the stops around Harvard Yard. It is going to turn down Dunster Street. I would like – I wish that the city administration and the management had done a better job advocating for those of us who don't have cars, which is what
individuals who have no regard for laws or life. The fact that an automatic weapon could be deployed on the Streets of Cambridge at 108 & 110 Harvard Street, means that it could also be deployed anywhere in Cambridge, including in the high school or in any
