renewal focus on the other buildings that are on the neighboring blocks you can see here. This is all lining Bow Street.
building open to the public that you're welcome to visit. So the Harvard Graduate School of Education has a building, Gutman Library, on the corner of Brattle Street
So the Harvard Graduate School of Education has a building, Gutman Library, on the corner of Brattle Street and Appian Way. And we've worked with Shepley Bulfinch to
building, Gutman Library, on the corner of Brattle Street and Appian Way. And we've worked with Shepley Bulfinch to finish a renovation of the conference center in the
So the college, as you know, is proposed to be located on Vassar Street, at the site of the old Cyclotron MIT.
Another new initiative is the expansion of The Engine at 750 Main Street currently today. As you probably know, The Engine provides wraparound services for what we
Mass Ave location. And we anticipate another 100 companies will soon be supported at the Main Street location. We're also pleased to report that we're on track
to swing by when you can when spring arrives, to see what may be in bloom. And it's on the corner of Ames and Memorial Drive.
may be in bloom. And it's on the corner of Ames and Memorial Drive. So today I'm going to touch upon four of our
primary focus for MIT. Later this year, this summer we look forward to the opening of the Vassar Street undergraduate residence, adding 450 undergraduate beds in August.
It will also host the return of the MIT Press Bookstore, and some very welcome retail on Main Street. And the rollout of the new MIT Gateway, as you see
streets and open spaces. The Ames Street two-way cycle track improved the crossing on Memorial Drive to the Charles River with a very
The Ames Street two-way cycle track improved the crossing on Memorial Drive to the Charles River with a very new safe, signalized intersection.
Later this year, MIT will start replanting trees on Vassar Street from Mass Avenue to Main Street, and as part of this work will be converting an unprotected bicycle
part of this work will be converting an unprotected bicycle lane up to Main Street by extending the existing cycle Both the new College of Computing and the new
improvements. The soon-to-be opened Vassar Street undergraduate residence in the top left will open this year with a
new trees, lighting and street furniture. Both the Vassar Street residence and the Metropolitan Storage Warehouse will have the opportunity to
Metropolitan Storage Warehouse will have the opportunity to renew and transform the northern edge of Vassar Street west of Mass Ave, which was formerly 800 feet of loading zone and
space that's just adjacent to the Kendall/MIT T stop, MIT museum, the sort of south of Main Street section of the Kendall Square Initiative.
activities. We have started -- I'm going to start -- focus primarily on the north side of Main Street. We've started construction on our residential building, that will bring
side. Obviously, a lot of stuff going on on the south side of Main Street. 314 Main Street, which is the old Site 5, that will house the MIT Museum. Commercial tenants will
of Main Street. 314 Main Street, which is the old Site 5, that will house the MIT Museum. Commercial tenants will start moving into that building later this year.
start moving into that building later this year. 238 Main Street, which is the Site 3 behind the clock tower building, the steel's topping off, current wall
And then finally the third commercial building on the south side of Main Street in the location of the existing graduate tower, we should be coming to the Planning
Other projects that I think we mentioned last year, and are in the report, all along Main Street, 139 Main Street is a small historic building right next to on
occupied. On the top right is 730-750 Main Street. That dimension is going to be the home -- 750 Main Street is
On the top right is 730-750 Main Street. That dimension is going to be the home -- 750 Main Street is going to be the home of The Engine. That work has started.
And then finally, you see an image at the bottom right, which is 792 Main Street. This is the connector. That was part of our Volpe commitments, even though we
Community Art Center, and helped to create this mural that you've probably seen on Main Street. It's a 400-foot long mural. It's the fourth mural that MIT has sponsored with
So -- yay Anya! Thank you. [Laughter] SARAH GALLOP: Michael mentioned The Job Connector. This is a 792 Main Street. This is something --
SARAH GALLOP: Michael mentioned The Job Connector. This is a 792 Main Street. This is something -- and also, there are many things like this in our
Junardy Jean-Charles, she couldn't be here tonight, but my hope is that you'll go down to 792 Main Street, talk to these guys, share your ideas with us, and we're just going
the residence of our founder in 1909, Edith Lesley. And out from that, up on Porter Square, is our more modern campus. We have the 1801 Mass Ave, which is the Lunder Art
we've done, but not in the subsequent photos, just to highlight: We've made improvement to the 101 Brattle Street, adding a backup for accessibility to that. That
Johnston Gate every night and come and connect with the #83 in Central Square. There are a lot of people who take the bus over by
The whole idea is it's supposedly going to improve the trip time by two minutes to Central I think is the claim by sending that bus down Dunster Street. Now, one of the
the trip time by two minutes to Central I think is the claim by sending that bus down Dunster Street. Now, one of the reasons -- the arguments for moving it to Dunster -- was
by sending that bus down Dunster Street. Now, one of the reasons -- the arguments for moving it to Dunster -- was that there could be a stop there, the bus could actually --
that it only went down there for two weeks, but I think that's mistaken. I think it actually went down Dunster Street for longer than two weeks.
But the argument is, ok, so we're not -- it's not going to pick up or let off at Dunster Street, it's going to remain where it is, and so, the benefit in terms of
same awkward left turn that it used to make years ago to go down Dunster Street. And the connectivity could be restored if we're going to --
Broad 76:1,6 Broadway 1:6 broken 18:12
