Toomey, Councillor Zondervan Item Number 20-46, regarding a report on traffic measures on Concord Avenue. CMA 2020 #249
5. A communication transmitted from Louis A. DePasquale, City Manager, relative to Awaiting Report Item Number 20-42, regarding enforcement of illegal parking in front of LBJ Apartments on Erie Street.
Nov 2, 2020 4. An application was received from Charles Doty, requesting permission for a curb cut at the premises numbered 810 Main Street; said petition has received approval from Inspectional
4. An application was received from Charles Doty, requesting permission for a curb cut at the premises numbered 810 Main Street; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works. No
III. APPLICATIONS AND PETITIONS numbered 87 Cambridge Park Drive; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works. No response has been
to commence the public process with the Port neighborhood and surrounding communities to determine the future use of the 35 Cherry Street parcel for affordable housing, and in conjunction with the community, determine the type of housing that would meet the most pressing needs in the
4. That the Executive Assistant to the City Council confer with the Dedication Committee to consider the request for a suitable dedication in the vicinity of CCTV’s office located at 438 Massachusetts Avenue in honor of retiring CCTV Executive Director Susan Fleischmann
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
Nov 2, 2020 19-151. Report on the feasibility of making Porter Square and Massachusetts Avenue between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus
19-151. Report on the feasibility of making Porter Square and Massachusetts Avenue between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Sobrinho-Wheeler (O-6) from 7/27/2020 that will lead to increased enforcement of the parking regulations in front of 150 Erie Street, that will discourage illegal parking in front of the building.
Mayor Siddiqui, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Nolan, Councillor Sobrinho- Wheeler (O-6) from 9/14/2020 Street, Raymond Street and Richdale Ave.
Wheeler (O-6) from 9/14/2020 Street, Raymond Street and Richdale Ave. Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor Simmons (O-11)
from 9/14/2020 Huron Ave and Garden Street. Councillor Nolan (O-1) from 9/21/2020
Please find attached a response to Awaiting Report Item Number 20-46, regarding a report on traffic measures on Concord Avenue, received from Assistant City Manager for Community Development Iram Farooq and Traffic, Parking & Transportation Director Joseph Barr.
Awaiting Report 20-46 dated September 21, 2020 regarding implementation of traffic calming measures on Concord Avenue between Huron Avenue and Garden Street.
The following information is provided in response to Awaiting Report 20-46, dated September 21, 2020, regarding implementation of traffic calming measures on Concord Avenue between Huron Avenue and Garden Street. Staff from the Community
September 21, 2020, regarding implementation of traffic calming measures on Concord Avenue between Huron Avenue and Garden Street. Staff from the Community Development Department (CDD) and the Traffic, Parking and Transportation Department
Development Department (CDD) and the Traffic, Parking and Transportation Department (TP&T) have reviewed existing conditions on Concord Avenue and have visited the corridor to better understand the neighborhood context and traffic safety issues. Below is an
to better understand the neighborhood context and traffic safety issues. Below is an outline of how City staff plan to address the safety concerns on Concord Avenue. Existing Conditions
In October, City staff collected traffic volume and speed data for vehicles travelling on Concord Avenue west of Bond Street over a 48-hour period. The volume data indicate that Concord Avenue is currently carrying approximately 8,000 vehicles per day in this segment.
Concord Avenue west of Bond Street over a 48-hour period. The volume data indicate that Concord Avenue is currently carrying approximately 8,000 vehicles per day in this segment. The speed data indicate that the 85th percentile speed (the speed that 85 percent of drivers
MPH speed limit, this indicates that there is a need for improved speed control in this section of Concord Avenue. It is also important to understand the physical and operational characteristics of Concord
section of Concord Avenue. It is also important to understand the physical and operational characteristics of Concord Avenue, which influence how drivers on the road behave and the options available for
addressing speed issues: • As noted, Concord Avenue is subject to the citywide 25 MPH speed limit. • This segment of Concord Avenue is served by multiple MBTA bus routes (72, 74, 75,
• As noted, Concord Avenue is subject to the citywide 25 MPH speed limit. • This segment of Concord Avenue is served by multiple MBTA bus routes (72, 74, 75, and 78), which together provide relatively frequent service between Harvard Square
• This segment of Concord Avenue is served by multiple MBTA bus routes (72, 74, 75, and 78), which together provide relatively frequent service between Harvard Square and Huron Avenue. As a result, installation of any raised traffic calming devices is not
and 78), which together provide relatively frequent service between Harvard Square and Huron Avenue. As a result, installation of any raised traffic calming devices is not likely to be feasible without significant impacts on bus service.
likely to be feasible without significant impacts on bus service. • Concord Avenue in this section is relatively straight, with only a very gentle curve near St. Peter School to break up the linear nature of the street. When combined
• Concord Avenue in this section is relatively straight, with only a very gentle curve near St. Peter School to break up the linear nature of the street. When combined with buildings that are generally set back from the street, this can easily lead to
Awaiting Report 20-46(dated September 21, 2020), continued. • Although Concord Avenue is not a wide street, this segment can feel somewhat wider and more open than the outer segment west of Huron Avenue, particularly
• Although Concord Avenue is not a wide street, this segment can feel somewhat wider and more open than the outer segment west of Huron Avenue, particularly since the on-street parking on the south side of the street is not always heavily used.
since the on-street parking on the south side of the street is not always heavily used. In addition, since Concord Avenue is not currently programmed in the City’s Five-Year Sidewalk and Street Reconstruction Plan, at this point it is only possible to consider stand-
The narrow lanes create “visual friction” making drivers more aware of travel speed. • We also plan on installing an RRFB on Concord Avenue at the existing crosswalk at Bond Street to alert drivers when someone is crossing the street at this location.
• We also plan on installing an RRFB on Concord Avenue at the existing crosswalk at Bond Street to alert drivers when someone is crossing the street at this location. • We will also review the potential installation of a speed feedback sign at an
of funds and contracts to install the RRFB and the speed feedback sign. We have also added the segment of Concord Avenue between Huron Avenue and Garden Street to the list of requests for traffic calming to be considered when the street is
pedestrian-crosswalk-system Partial image of Neighborhood Nine including Concord Avenue segment. (Google Earth) Packet Pg. 43
The following pages are from TPT Department Volume and Speed Data Sheets Location: Concord Avenue, west of Bond Street, EB & WB. Packet Pg. 44
Accurate Counts Location : Concord Avenue Location : West of Bond Street
Location : Concord Avenue Location : West of Bond Street City/State: Cambridge, MA
Location : Concord Avenue Location : West of Bond Street
Location : Concord Avenue Location : West of Bond Street City/State: Cambridge, MA
Accurate Counts Location : Concord Avenue Location : West of Bond Street
Location : Concord Avenue Location : West of Bond Street City/State: Cambridge, MA
Location : Concord Avenue Location : West of Bond Street
Location : Concord Avenue Location : West of Bond Street City/State: Cambridge, MA
Location : Concord Avenue Location : West of Bond Street
Location : Concord Avenue Location : West of Bond Street City/State: Cambridge, MA
Location : Concord Avenue Location : West of Bond Street
Location : Concord Avenue Location : West of Bond Street City/State: Cambridge, MA
Accurate Counts Location : Concord Avenue Location : West of Bond Street
Location : Concord Avenue Location : West of Bond Street City/State: Cambridge, MA
Please find attached a response to Awaiting Report Item Number 20-42, regarding enforcement of illegal parking in front of LBJ Apartments on Erie Street, received from Traffic, Parking & Transportation Director Joseph Barr.
November 2, 2020 Awaiting Report 20-42 – Illegal Parking in Front of LBJ Apartments (150 Erie Street)
Awaiting Report 20-42 – Illegal Parking in Front of LBJ Apartments (150 Erie Street) This memo is in response to Order 2 from the September 14, 2020 City Council
the City’s parking regulations to discourage vehicles from parking illegally in front of the LBJ Apartments located at 150 Erie Street. As requested in the order, staff from Traffic, Parking, + Transportation (TP+T)
parked in the file lane, CPD will respond by sending out the closest officer who will tag and tow a vehicle if warranted. TP+T’s enforcement of 150 Erie Street is covered by a Parking Control Supervisor who is in a vehicle. If the Supervisor
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 810 Main Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material specified by the
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 87 Cambridge Park Drive, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material
• Active ground floors with retail including independent and small retail • Job Connector (which opened in 2019 at 792 Main Street in The Port neighborhood), including $1.5 million operation fund
commence the public process with the Port neighborhood and surrounding communities to determine the future use of the 35 Cherry Street parcel for affordable housing, and in conjunction with the community, determine the type of housing that would meet the most pressing needs in the area
 Roof top air handling units that are well within city noise ordinances  Upgraded ancillary parking facility on Columbia Street with security cameras which will  Designing a mural on Main Street to tell the story of Candy History in Cambridge for
 Upgraded ancillary parking facility on Columbia Street with security cameras which will  Designing a mural on Main Street to tell the story of Candy History in Cambridge for help the city as required.
Fire Department to stay current with issues facing the city of Cambridge Businesses  Member of Central Square Business Association
Cambridge Businesses  Member of Central Square Business Association Partner with Cambridge Savings Bank to promote CSB@Work
 Member of Central Square Business Association Partner with Cambridge Savings Bank to promote CSB@Work Support Naco Taco Music Festival including Wild Rabbit Moto
Packet Pg. 197 795 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge MA 02139
795 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge MA 02139 From: Nicolai Cauchy <hurongreenhouse@gmail.com>
for one red light at main intersections instead of three traffic light cycles. The only realistic way to reach Cambridge Crossing is by Cambridge Street. That segment of my trip was the one that I felt most risked my life.
qualifications for a placard, people who work at jobs which are outside the reach of the MBTA often have no choice but to own a car. I live in the Quadrangle area of Cambridge and need my car to get to services and meetings in Central Square. I already have to pay to park in the garage in my building. Since the city has dramatically increased the use of
City Council I am very happy that the city is considering constructing housing on the 35 Cherry Street lot which has been a barren eyesore for as long as I can remember.
building wealth for many who were denied such opportunity because of the color of their skin. I also feel that the project should be expanded to include the vacant building at the corner of School and Windsor street. Our family has lived on the corner of School and Cherry Street since 1983 and our property is located directly across the
project should be expanded to include the vacant building at the corner of School and Windsor street. Our family has lived on the corner of School and Cherry Street since 1983 and our property is located directly across the street from 35 Cherry Street. We would like to be very involved in discussions about the future of the Cherry Street lot,
Our family has lived on the corner of School and Cherry Street since 1983 and our property is located directly across the street from 35 Cherry Street. We would like to be very involved in discussions about the future of the Cherry Street lot, the building on the corner of Windsor and School Street, and other development projects in the Port.
street from 35 Cherry Street. We would like to be very involved in discussions about the future of the Cherry Street lot, the building on the corner of Windsor and School Street, and other development projects in the Port. Thank you,
vehicles has increased with Uber, Lyft, and COVID-19. We have also seen new demands on our public spaces with COVID-19, from restaurants taking over metered spaces for outdoor dining, opening Memorial Drive to allow walkers to socially distance, and finding sites appropriate for voting and COVID-19 testing.
during this time: It's exciting to hear that a community process for the Cherry Street lot will be beginning. Thanks to Councilor Simmons for this important policy order.
to consider the request from Councillor Simmons for a street corner dedication in the vicinity of the corner of Brookline Street and Valentine Street in honor of the late Eurie Stamps, Sr.; and be it further
As part of a 2013 agreement related to the PUD-5 rezoning, MIT conveyed the parcel at 35 Cherry Street (Assessor’s Lot #75-118) to the City; and This agreement stipulated that use of the property shall be determined through a public
Development Department to commence the public process with the Port neighborhood and surrounding communities to determine the future use of the 35 Cherry Street parcel for affordable housing, and in conjunction with the community, determine the type of
to consider the request for a suitable dedication in the vicinity of CCTV’s office located at 438 Massachusetts Avenue in honor of retiring CCTV Executive Director Susan Fleischmann; and be it further
Brands looks forward to working with her and continuing to participate as an active member of the Cambridge Community and the Main Street neighborhood.” Within an hour of sending that email, both Ms. Yetman and Mr. Doty realized what had happened and sent me profusely apologetic emails
Brands looks forward to working with her and continuing to participate as an active member of the Cambridge Community and the Main Street neighborhood.” Within an hour of sending that email, both Ms. Yetman and Mr. Doty realized what had happened and sent me profusely apologetic emails
