Toomey, Councillor Zondervan Item Number 19-159, regarding safety concerns at the intersection of Walden and Saville Streets. CMA 2020 #33
III. APPLICATIONS AND PETITIONS front of the premises numbered 1759 Massachusetts Avenue. APP 2020 #6
ORDER ADOPTED numbered 147 Otis Street; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works. Response has been received
ORDER ADOPTED District, requesting permission for (19) nineteen temporary banners along poles on Massachusetts Avenue announcing Cambridge Historic Black Trailblazers from February 11, 2020 thru March 1,
District, requesting permission for (19) nineteen temporary banners along poles on Massachusetts Avenue announcing Cambridge Historic Black Trailblazers from February 11, 2020 thru March 1, APP 2020 #8
ORDER ADOPTED District, requesting permission for (10) ten temporary banners along poles on Massachusetts Avenue announcing Taste of Carnival from February 11, 2020 thru March 1, 2020.
Feb 10, 2020 8. A communication was received from Hasson Rashid, 820 Massachusetts Avenue, regarding Unfinished Business #4 and Late Agenda item #1.
ORDER ADOPTED BY AFFIRMATIVE VOTE OF NINE MEMBERS Hampshire Street in honor of Sydney Cox, with this becoming known as the “Sydney James Cox Maintenance Facility.
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
(Calendar Item #5) from 10/7/2019 Central Square Library branch. Vice Mayor Mallon, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (Calendar Item #8)
Vice Mayor Mallon (O-1) from 10/21/2019 officers to work collaboratively with and exclusively within Cambridge Housing Authority premises in and near Central Square and the Port.
officers to work collaboratively with and exclusively within Cambridge Housing Authority premises in and near Central Square and the Port. Councillor Simmons, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-2) from
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
McGovern (O-1) from 11/25/2019 Saville Street and Walden Street Mayor Siddiqui, Vice Mayor Devereux (O-4) from
Report on the potential for implementing sufficient traffic-calming solutions on Upton Street. Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (O-7) from 1/27/2020
Councillor Simmons, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Carlone (O-1) from Report on working with the residents in the vicinity of Eustis Street to implement traffic calming measures on this street.
Please find attached a response to Awaiting Report Item Number 19-159, regarding a report on ways to review safety and devise any safety interventions at the corner of Saville Street and Walden Street, received from Traffic, Parking & Transportation Director Joseph Barr.
ways to review safety and devise any safety interventions at the corner of Saville Street and Walden Street, received from Traffic, Parking & Transportation Director Joseph Barr. Very truly yours,
Awaiting Report 19-159 – Safety Concerns at the intersection of Walden Street and Saville Street This memo is in response to Order 4 from the November 25, 2019 City Council Meeting
This memo is in response to Order 4 from the November 25, 2019 City Council Meeting (Awaiting Report 19-159) to report on traffic safety concerns at the intersection of Walden Street and Saville Street, where multiple crashes have been reported in the past two years.
(Awaiting Report 19-159) to report on traffic safety concerns at the intersection of Walden Street and Saville Street, where multiple crashes have been reported in the past two years. In order to assess existing traffic conditions, staff from the Traffic, Parking, and Transportation
and Police Departments have conducted multiple site visits to observe existing conditions, traffic operations, and parking conditions on Walden Street in the vicinity of Saville Street. Crash records for the past two years were also reviewed to identify any potential safety
(Saville Street) approach. Saville Street serves local neighborhood traffic
immediate area, while Walden Street serves both local trips and through traffic,
local trips and through traffic, connecting Huron Avenue to Concord Avenue and Garden
connecting Huron Avenue to Concord Avenue and Garden Street. Parking regulations
Street. Parking regulations on Walden Street include NO STOPPING zones on all four
STOPPING zones on all four corners of Saville Street in order to provide safe
drivers or bicyclists turning onto or crossing Walden Street.
• September 2019: Angle crash - Police report indicates that the driver entered the intersection from Saville Street eastbound and struck a vehicle traveling through on Walden Street northbound. There were no noted sight distance obstructions, it appears
intersection from Saville Street eastbound and struck a vehicle traveling through on Walden Street northbound. There were no noted sight distance obstructions, it appears that the Saville Street driver did not take proper care before entering the intersection.
Walden Street northbound. There were no noted sight distance obstructions, it appears that the Saville Street driver did not take proper care before entering the intersection. • November 2019: Sideswipe crash – Police report indicates that a driver attempted to
• November 2019: Fixed object crash – Police report indicates that a driver swerved to avoid a vehicle entering the intersection from Saville Street, lost control, and struck a fence. Speed may have been a factor.
configuration of the intersection, and that this group of crashes don’t appear to indicate a systemic problem. Speed may have been a factor in one or more of the crashes. Walden Street will be subject to a new 20 MPH safety zone regulation, with signs expected to be posted within
will be subject to a new 20 MPH safety zone regulation, with signs expected to be posted within the next month, including one just north of Saville Street. Given the observations and crash data review, the Traffic Department does not propose any changes to the intersection at this
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 147 Otis Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material specified by the
Cambridge, MA 02139 RE: Proposed Curb Cut at 147 Otis Street (Application 54799) Dear Mayor Siddiqui, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillors Carlone, McGovern, Nolan, Simmons, Sobrinho-
Wheeler, Toomey, and Zondervan: The East Cambridge Planning Team (ECPT) reviewed the package for the proposed curb cut at 147 Otis Street at its January 22, 2020, general meeting. The Applicant, Greg Leppert, presented the plan to ECPT
Council for their consideration. East End House 105 Spring Street, Cambridge MA 02141 ecplanningteam@gmail.com
Dear City Councilors and Neighbors, Thank you for your consideration of a curb cut at our home at 147 Otis Street, in East Cambridge. As a family with a young child, and plans for more, a curb cut would do wonders to
could park? While we do have frontage on both Sixth and Otis Streets, Charlie’s funeral home and Sacred Heart Catholic Church (both of which we love) are also at this corner and each one
While we do have frontage on both Sixth and Otis Streets, Charlie’s funeral home and Sacred Heart Catholic Church (both of which we love) are also at this corner and each one regularly draws significant numbers of cars. As one neighbor, whose family has lived at our
A: When we bought 147 Otis Street, the area where the Board of Zoning Appeals granted us space to place a car was entirely covered in old, nonpermeable cement pavers. We’ve removed
My name is Harry Fullerton and I’m writing in regards to the condos at 31 and 33 Sixth Street, situated immediately behind 147 Otis Street. The former owners/occupants of the Sixth Street condos were dear friends of mine and,
maintaining signs, the Commissioner of Public Works be and hereby is authorized to grant a permit to Central Square Business Improvement District Provided that, before erecting the above named (19) nineteen temporary banners the
maintaining signs, the Commissioner of Public Works be and hereby is authorized to grant a permit to Central Square Business Improvement District Provided that, before erecting the above named (10) ten temporary banners the
Sumbul Siddiqui, Mayor of Cambridge, and the Honorable Geeta Pradhan, President of the Cambridge Community Foundation, and Michael Monestime, Executive Director of the Central Square Business Improvement District; now therefore be it
the Cambridge Community Foundation, and Michael Monestime, Executive Director of the Central Square Business Improvement District; now therefore be it That the City Council go on record congratulating the 2020 recipients of the
That the City Manager be and hereby is requested to rename the maintenance area within the Ryan Garage at 147 Hampshire Street in honor of Sydney Cox, with this becoming known as the “Sydney James Cox Maintenance Facility;” and be it further
within the Ryan Garage at 147 Hampshire Street in honor of Sydney Cox, with this becoming known as the “Sydney James Cox Maintenance Facility;” and be it further That the City Manager be and hereby is requested to report back on this matter to the
challenging; and The National Guard Armory of Cambridge, located at 450 Concord Avenue, adjacent to the Tobin Montessori/Vassal Lane Upper Schools campus, presents a potential
down now to a building along the street side at 90 feet, a building on the northern side of the site of 60 feet and we have also limited the mechanical penthouse heights on the Binney Street side to 25 feet in height, in addition to the 90 feet. This is what I mentioned earlier the changes that
conveying 1,800 linear feet, making the connection of the Grand Junction pathway between the Binney Street connection and the Cambridge Street connection. It is 1,800 linear feet along there. Through a previous zoning petition, a section of land was conveyed but please note that
we will be widening that to the city preferred 14 feet width, in that, all along the 1,800 linear feet connecting Binney Street to Cambridge street here. You can see here, it really is a key section of, that will be an off street, multimodal, non-vehicular connection of the Grand Junction
of, that will be an off street, multimodal, non-vehicular connection of the Grand Junction pathway. You can see it includes this 686 Cambridge Street, a little building on Cambridge street, you can see directly to the left side of the photo is the Loyal Nine cafe. This building we
envision would likely come down. It's nothing special, I think is probably optimistic to say about it. So, we envision it being some sort of entry pocket park here along Cambridge Street. Similar to Linear Park up on Mass Ave. You can see outlining here that our site, it's about four and a
it. So, we envision it being some sort of entry pocket park here along Cambridge Street. Similar to Linear Park up on Mass Ave. You can see outlining here that our site, it's about four and a half acres, it's divided into the front section IA-1 and the back section to the right-hand side of
zone on the site and in, after further design and looking at further plans. We agree, so I think this has been, this is just a depiction of showing the Binney Street zone with the higher heights at 90 feet, the transition zone at 60 feet and the C-1 zone and shown in the light blue or gray
already done some preliminary understanding based on soil conditions in the general area of the scope of that kind of remediation. So, our experience at Rogers Street in with the foundry building was that we had to deliver land in a quality that was acceptable to the city, and that
wouldn't purchase all of the land. Yeah, go ahead. James Rafferty, Esq., Adams and Rafferty 35:50 There are three components to the land. There's the portion out on Cambridge Street that we do
James Rafferty, Esq., Adams and Rafferty 35:50 There are three components to the land. There's the portion out on Cambridge Street that we do own.
Yeah. James Rafferty, Esq., Adams and Rafferty 35:55 There's the portion along at standing at Binney Street that we do on. And there's a portion in the
James Rafferty, Esq., Adams and Rafferty 35:55 There's the portion along at standing at Binney Street that we do on. And there's a portion in the middle owned by the church, which we have under contract to purchase.
We've had limited engagement. The alternative location that Eversource is exploring, their reporting will cost them more than the Fulkerson Street location. And they have cited their need City of Cambridge
reporting will cost them more than the Fulkerson Street location. And they have cited their need City of Cambridge Page 10
see it until we see the documentation on that, but I would say that's the place where you would see memorialized obligations around the disposition of the Eversource Fulkerson Street parcel. Vice Mayor Jan Devereux 42:56
Thank you, Mr. Chair. Again, I apologize for having to leave. But hopefully that scenario works out that Alexandria purchases the Eversource sites on Fulkerson Street and I'm sure everybody will anticipate and appreciate that that site be converted to open space somehow to convert, to
December 10, 2019 Good evening, Pamela Van Dort from 13 Cornelius Way. Thank you for the opportunity to provide comment on this petition in the third iteration. I also want to start by acknowledging all of
Thank you. Matthew Connolly is next followed by Jason Alves. Welcome, Matthew. Thank you. Good evening, Matthew Connelly at 13 Cornelius Way. I want to build on what Pamela said and I know that the Cambridge Residents Alliance submitted an email yesterday
Thank you. Good evening, Matthew Connelly at 13 Cornelius Way. I want to build on what Pamela said and I know that the Cambridge Residents Alliance submitted an email yesterday that they specifically asked that I mention. But to build on those concepts. I guess the problem
Councillor Dennis Carlone 57:31 Thank you, Jason Alves, followed by Lee Ferris, but I believe she left. Welcome, Jason. Hi. Jason Alves, Director of the East Cambridge Business Association, 877 Cambridge Street.
Thank you, Jason Alves, followed by Lee Ferris, but I believe she left. Welcome, Jason. Hi. Jason Alves, Director of the East Cambridge Business Association, 877 Cambridge Street. Here again to offer our support for the petition by Alexandria. I think this petition's come a long
unless and until there is a resolution to move the proposed Eversource substation off of Fulkerson Street. While we understand and appreciate that Alexandria has continued to meet with the City Manager, Eversource, and other developers in the intervening months since the
Dear Mr. Wilson, I am Lino Becerra from 6 Cornelius Way, Cambridge, MA 02141. I’m requesting that my following message is made available to the Ordinance Committee as they review the "Grand
originally started with two buildings of 120 feet in height. We are now down to 90 feet along the Binney Street side and 60 feet along the back. We have also limited our rooftop mechanical penthouse to 25 feet in height as well. Commitment letter benefits. This is where we do have a
more than 10 years. It's a very exciting opportunity that we have here, as our benefit would be and Cambridge street connecting Cambridge Street to Kendall Square off street. Michelle Lower, Vice President, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. 14:05
Michelle Lower, Vice President, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. 14:05 You can see this is a view looking southward from Cambridge Street, where the yellow box is looking down towards Binney street just showing the actual area where it would be the yellow,
You can see this is a view looking southward from Cambridge Street, where the yellow box is looking down towards Binney street just showing the actual area where it would be the yellow, excuse me, the yellow area is 14 feet wide, and that is the strip that we would be conveying to
the City or knock it down and then give it to the city. You can see just for orientation, Loyal Nine, the cafe is on the left. This is 686 Cambridge Street, which we can't wait until it looks like this, a real pocket Park opportunity here. A gateway into the Grand Junction pathway, think Linear
the cafe is on the left. This is 686 Cambridge Street, which we can't wait until it looks like this, a real pocket Park opportunity here. A gateway into the Grand Junction pathway, think Linear Park up in North Cambridge. A nice area really to invite people into, excuse me, the multi-use
real pocket Park opportunity here. A gateway into the Grand Junction pathway, think Linear Park up in North Cambridge. A nice area really to invite people into, excuse me, the multi-use path from Cambridge Street down moving southwards toward Kendall Square. Here you can
Park up in North Cambridge. A nice area really to invite people into, excuse me, the multi-use path from Cambridge Street down moving southwards toward Kendall Square. Here you can see this is just an overview of what our actual parcel is. Excuse me, there, it is currently zoned
see because you can't really zoom in. But we have both what we like to call the Oklahoma shaped piece as well as the strip that goes all the way to, from Binney Street to Cambridge Street. I will also note the land area in the along the 1,800 linear feet is not included in our FAR
site to say that it would be potentially a site they could use for a substation. So, they could move it from the Fulkerson Street site to this site. Part of that agreement is between two private parties. They're still working out final discussion points on how this would happen, what would
what they said they were going to do. And you know, when the process of seeing that now especially with the new park on Binney Street and the Foundry building. And so, I do think that they have really been negotiated quite a bit with the neighbors and Wellington harriton. One part
especially with the new park on Binney Street and the Foundry building. And so, I do think that they have really been negotiated quite a bit with the neighbors and Wellington harriton. One part is East Cambridge Planning team. And especially I want to mention, you know, both Councillor
which is such an environmental benefit in many regards But so, my level is risen, of confidence that this Eversource will not be built on Fulkerson Street and that land will be talked about quite a bit and what the future use. I know housing and open space is main topics that people have
the Ordinance Committee at tomorrow’s meeting. We still want a public solution to the proposed Eversource substation on Fulkerson Street before Alexandria’s petition is passed. We have heard, and sincerely hope, that such an announcement
• Eliminate Transfer of Development Rights • Exclude lot area of Grand Junction Pathway, including Cambridge Street lot, from FAR calculations
feet to 90 feet • Reduce maximum height along Fulkerson Street in new “Transition Zone” down from 120 feet to 60 feet
• Exclude commercial building from residential district • Limit rooftop mechanical penthouse height in the Binney Street Zone to 25’ Packet Pg. 291
GRAND JUNCTION GREENWAY Existing Condition 686 Cambridge Street Packet Pg. 296
GRAND JUNCTION GREENWAY Proposed Cambridge Street Gateway Packet Pg. 297
height Binney Street Zone limit of 25’
By creating a new overlay zoning district entitled Grand Junction Pathway Overlay District in the area of the existing Grand Junction Railroad Right of Way between Cambridge Street and Binney Street, and to amend Article 20.000 of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Cambridge by creating a Section 20.1000
the existing Grand Junction Railroad Right of Way between Cambridge Street and Binney Street, and to amend Article 20.000 of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Cambridge by creating a Section 20.1000 Grand Junction Pathway Overlay District.
development of a public pathway along the Grand Junction railroad right-of-way in connection with high quality development consistent with development along the Binney Street corridor. The provisions of Section 20.1000, which would be subject to special permit approval by the Planning
Junction rail corridor to be used for a public pathway, and would allow development on other identified parcels of land referred to as 303 and 345 Binney Street for uses otherwise allowed in the base Industry A-1 district, with a maximum building height of 105 feet along Binney Street and 60 feet in the
parcels of land referred to as 303 and 345 Binney Street for uses otherwise allowed in the base Industry A-1 district, with a maximum building height of 105 feet along Binney Street and 60 feet in the Transition Zone, a maximum floor area ratio of 2.5 multiplied by the area of the industrially zoned
