And then a continued hearing on proposed development at 97 Cambridge Park Drive. So welcome to March.
where there will be a hearing on a cannabis retail store proposal at 701-703B Mount Auburn Street, and we also will be reviewing a proposed amendment to the transportation
there will be a new public hearing on a proposed hotel development at 727 Mass Ave in Central Square, plus there will be a preapplication conference on the Cambridgeside PUD
development at 727 Mass Ave in Central Square, plus there will be a preapplication conference on the Cambridgeside PUD development proposal.
CHRISTOPHER SCHMIDT: Thank you very much. Christopher Schmidt, 17 Laurel Street. S-c-h-m-i-d-t is the last name, and I am the petitioner in this case on changing
petition. What would prohibit, like, one of the houses on Brattle Street from being turned into a frat house? CHRISTOPHER SCHMIDT: So I think that my
If someone were to take one of these eight-bedroom units on Brattle Street and say, "16 of us are going to live together, and we're going to all -- you know, sign a lease
ALLAN SADUN: Allan, A-l-l-a-n Sadun, S-a-d-u-n, at 17 Pleasant Place. I'm going to be fairly brief. Thank you, members of the Planning Board, Madam Chair.
So the third one is a building that was renovated a couple years ago on Harvard Street. It's one of the big bowfront buildings that was originally -- I think eight,
think in one of these cases -- I mean there's no parking on Harvard Street anyway, so it didn't make any difference. So my suggestion to this petition is to leave all
HUGH RUSSELL: I mean, and I guess I'll talk about say a fifth case, which is the Norris Street conversion of a French high school into as many rooms as can be packed into
We're back in session, and we are moving on to our next public hearing, which is on 101 Cambridge Park Drive. This is a continued public hearing, and Mr. Rafferty, are you
Attorney with offices at 907 Massachusetts Ave in Cambridge. I'm appearing this evening on behalf of King Street properties. Present in the front row is Thomas
Ragno, R-a-g-n-o. Mr. Ragno is the Founder and Principal of King Street Properties and his colleague, Tyson Ronoso, R-o- n-o-s-o, a high-level executive with the company -- I'm sure
of this path. And King Street did success in acquiring a license from the MBTA, and what's before the Board tonight are
TYSON RONOSO: Good evening. Tyson Ronoso. Good evening. My name is Tyson Ronoso with King Street Properties. Address is 800 Boylston Street, Boston. So Jim
orange, with the building that is sited behind the subject. The new building is 87 Cambridge Park Drive, and the proposed development site is on a parking lot in front
debris that's back there today, really make a nice visual, safe connection between the Bike Path and Cambridge Park Drive.
the street totals about 16,000 square feet. Given these facts and that Cambridge Park Drive today is not a destination retail location, the conclusion
today is not a destination retail location, the conclusion is that our retail space plan for 101 Cambridge Park Drive is appropriately sized as is, given the existing and the
approved January 14, includes a novel concept to reduce the parking supply for 87 Cambridge Park Drive, the existing building, as leases roll over in that building.
RANDY KREIE: My name is Randy Kreie, K-r-e-i-e, Principal at Dimella Shaffer Associates in Boston, 31 Summer Street. As we started looking at the questions that came up
design of the landscape that's between the two buildings, between 87 and 101 Cambridge Park Drive. So it's all of a similar style and design.
This is the plaza area here, and then this is the entry vestibule on the 87 Cambridge Park Drive side of the building. So you're basically looking north of the
whole area is just basically underwater, and it's all interconnected with the drainage system within Cambridge Park Drive and with the Alewife Brook, which is adjacent to
interconnected with the drainage system within Cambridge Park Drive and with the Alewife Brook, which is adjacent to the site.
infrastructure improvements related to the form that the Traffic Department is now settled upon in the area, and King Street is a willing participant, and sees the wisdom and the
falls within this footprint, and slightly up along the east side of 87 Cambridge Park Drive. So from the stormwater perspective, the design
the underground detention area, and then discharges out to the Cambridge Park Drive the way it does do that. LOUIS J. BACCI, JR.: I guess the calculations
broader 86:1 Broadway 1:6 broken 26:1
