Toomey, Councillor Zondervan Item Number 19-143, regarding a report on a pilot program with the Cambridge Housing Authority of assigning security officers with CHA premises in and near Central Square and The Port.
Item Number 19-143, regarding a report on a pilot program with the Cambridge Housing Authority of assigning security officers with CHA premises in and near Central Square and The Port. CMA 2020 #41
PLACED ON FILE Item Number 20-2, regarding a report on maintenance plan for public area bins on Cambridge Street with an emphasis on cleaning open-trash receptacles more frequently.
III. APPLICATIONS AND PETITIONS temporary banner across JFK at Mount Auburn Street to inform people about the 20 mph speed limits that are being implemented the banner will be hung from March 2, 2020 thru March 16, 2020.
ORDER ADOPTED at the premises numbered 190 Concord Avenue approval has been received from Inspectional Services, Department of Public Works, Community Development Department and abutter.
Feb 24, 2020 8. A communication was received from George Metzger, 90 Antrim Street, regarding Affordable Overlay Housing Ordinance.
Feb 24, 2020 16. A communication was received from Roy Russel, 40 Cottage Street, regarding support of Policy Order #40.
Feb 24, 2020 24. A communication was received from Hasson Rashid, 820 Massachusetts Avenue, regarding City Managers Agenda #1, Calendar/Unfinished Business Item #4, Policy Order #1, Community Reports
ORDER ADOPTED BY AN AFFIRMATIVE VOTE OF NINE MEMBERS for Gerrys Landing Road. POR 2020 #38
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
(Calendar Item #5) from 10/7/2019 Central Square Library branch. Vice Mayor Mallon, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (Calendar Item #8)
Vice Mayor Mallon (O-1) from 10/21/2019 officers to work collaboratively with and exclusively within Cambridge Housing Authority premises in and near Central Square and the Port.
officers to work collaboratively with and exclusively within Cambridge Housing Authority premises in and near Central Square and the Port. Councillor Simmons, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-2) from
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Report on the potential for implementing sufficient traffic-calming solutions on Upton Street. Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (O-7) from 1/27/2020
Councillor Simmons, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Carlone (O-1) from Report on working with the residents in the vicinity of Eustis Street to implement traffic calming measures on this street.
Please find attached a response to Awaiting Report Item Number 19-143, regarding a report on a pilot program with the Cambridge Housing Authority of assigning security officers with CHA premises in and near Central Square and The Port, received from Police Commissioner Branville G. Bard, Jr.
program with the Cambridge Housing Authority of assigning security officers with CHA premises in and near Central Square and The Port, received from Police Commissioner Branville G. Bard, Jr. Very truly yours,
Re: Pilot Program w/CHA – Security Officers to work collaboratively with and exclusively within CHA premises in and near Central Square and The Port. The purpose of this response is to address Awaiting Report #19-143, dated October 21, 2019, whereby
the City Manager was requested to report on the feasibility of piloting a program of assigning additional security officers to work collaboratively with and exclusively within the Cambridge Housing Authority (CHA) premises in and near Central Square and The Port.
security officers to work collaboratively with and exclusively within the Cambridge Housing Authority (CHA) premises in and near Central Square and The Port. In effort to ensure the highest quality police service to the residents of public housing in Cambridge,
Most recently, at the December meeting, Dave Degou informed CPD that CHA had retained the services of MDS Security of Waltham to monitor the Manning Apartments located at 237 Franklin Street. One unarmed security guard will be staffed nightly for an overnight shift, providing coverage
Please find attached a response to Awaiting Report Item Number 20-2, regarding a report on maintenance plan for public area bins on Cambridge Street with an emphasis on cleaning open-trash receptacles more frequently, received from Public Works Commissioner Owen O'Riordan.
Re: Awaiting Report 20-2, dated January 27, 2020 regarding the department’s maintenance plan for public area bins on Cambridge Street with an emphasis on cleaning open-trash receptacles more frequently.
twice per year or on an as needed/requested basis. The majority of the bins have been in place since the last time Cambridge Street was reconstructed. Public Works have made repairs or replaced some over the years but have had
As part of the ongoing deployment of Big Belly infrastructure in the city, DPW is presently putting together a plan to further this deployment in 2020 and 2021 on Cambridge Street and in other locations throughout the City. The department is working with the managers office to
During this one-year shutdown, the MBTA will operate a “bus bridge” service replacing the Green Line between Lechmere Station and North Station. This bus bridge will begin at the existing Lechmere Station Cambridge Street bus loop, travel via a short section of Cambridge
Green Line between Lechmere Station and North Station. This bus bridge will begin at the existing Lechmere Station Cambridge Street bus loop, travel via a short section of Cambridge Street, O’Brien Highway and Charles River Dam Road towards Boston with a stop along the
existing Lechmere Station Cambridge Street bus loop, travel via a short section of Cambridge Street, O’Brien Highway and Charles River Dam Road towards Boston with a stop along the way near the Museum of Science, then let passengers off near the rear entrance to North Station
information must be accessed with ease during emergency responses. • The technology is deployed in the data center at 125 6th Street so that it can connect to the existing CAD/RMS systems that support the Police Department and
By creating a new overlay zoning district entitled Grand Junction Pathway Overlay District in the area of the existing Grand Junction Railroad Right of Way between Cambridge Street and Binney Street, and to amend Article 20.000 of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Cambridge by creating a Section 20.1000
the existing Grand Junction Railroad Right of Way between Cambridge Street and Binney Street, and to amend Article 20.000 of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Cambridge by creating a Section 20.1000 Grand Junction Pathway Overlay District.
development of a public pathway along the Grand Junction railroad right-of-way in connection with high quality development consistent with development along the Binney Street corridor. The provisions of Section 20.1000, which would be subject to special permit approval by the Planning
Junction rail corridor to be used for a public pathway, and would allow development on other identified parcels of land referred to as 303 and 345 Binney Street for uses otherwise allowed in the base Industry A-1 district, with a maximum building height of 105 feet along Binney Street and 60 feet in the
parcels of land referred to as 303 and 345 Binney Street for uses otherwise allowed in the base Industry A-1 district, with a maximum building height of 105 feet along Binney Street and 60 feet in the Transition Zone, a maximum floor area ratio of 2.5 multiplied by the area of the industrially zoned
Overlay provided the structure that contains the use has a main entrance on Massachusetts Avenue, Mt. Auburn Street, Arrow Street or Bow Street. For all other lots, the Planning Board may allow by special permit the retail use of a lot or
within the Overlay provided the structure that contains the use has a main entrance on Massachusetts Avenue, Mt. Auburn Street, Harvard Street Arrow Street or Bow Street. For all other lots, the Planning Board may allow by
entrance on Massachusetts Avenue, Mt. Auburn Street, Harvard Street Arrow Street or Bow Street. For all other lots, the Planning Board may allow by special permit the retail use of a lot or structure all or partially within the
Be granted permission for a temporary banner hung across the public way located at: JFK at Mount Auburn Street from 03-02-2020 through 03-16-2020 Massachusetts Avenue in front of City Hall from 03-02-2020 through 03-16-2020
JFK at Mount Auburn Street from 03-02-2020 through 03-16-2020 Massachusetts Avenue in front of City Hall from 03-02-2020 through 03-16-2020 Description: These banners are to inform people about the 20 mph speed limits that are being implemented In Cambridge.
grant a permit to Rock and Roll Daycare for a projecting sign at the premises numbered 190 Concord Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Provided that, before erecting the above named projecting sign the petitioner shall file with the City Clerk a
INCHES on a personal computer. Inspectional Services Department is located at 831 Massachusetts Avenue, (617) 349-6100. Items that must be scanned and attached to online application:
Insurance Hall, 795 Massachusetts Avenue, (617) 349-4260. only. You must measure and state the distance by which the sign or structure will project over the public
Cambridge; and Olympia resides in Porter Square, and is the much-loved first grandchild on both sides of her family; now therefore be it
The City recently held its annual Warm Hearts for Warm Feet wool sock drive, benefiting homeless residents served by CASPAR and Bay Cove Human Services; and Hilton’s Tent City, which recently made Central Square its home and embodies the
benefiting homeless residents served by CASPAR and Bay Cove Human Services; and Hilton’s Tent City, which recently made Central Square its home and embodies the soul and spirit of the Square, has played an active role in the Warm Hearts for Warm
WHEREAS: Maria has worked hard for many years and provided exceptional service to the people of Cambridge during her years working in the Central Square branch of Eastern Bank, and while Cambridge shall certainly miss her, this promotion is very much deserved;
of Cambridge during her years working in the Central Square branch of Eastern Bank, and while Cambridge shall certainly miss her, this promotion is very much deserved; now therefore be it
WHEREAS: As a result of the Vassal Lane School reconstruction, the West Cambridge Little League is being relocated to Glacken Field; and
In May 2018, after two years of sustained community outreach and public engagement, the Massachusetts Department of Conservation and Recreation (DCR) published the Mount Auburn Street Corridor Study, a comprehensive report on planned roadway
the Massachusetts Department of Conservation and Recreation (DCR) published the Mount Auburn Street Corridor Study, a comprehensive report on planned roadway improvements to the intersection of Mt. Auburn Street, Fresh Pond Parkway, and
Mount Auburn Street Corridor Study, a comprehensive report on planned roadway improvements to the intersection of Mt. Auburn Street, Fresh Pond Parkway, and Gerrys Landing Road; and
improvements to the intersection of Mt. Auburn Street, Fresh Pond Parkway, and Gerrys Landing Road; and Among the list of shared objectives established by the study’s stakeholders were goals
This plan also included a two-way protected bicycle lane that would have extended to the Charles River along Gerrys Landing Road, providing safe bicycle and pedestrian connectivity to the Eliot Bridge and Dudley White Bike Path along the river; and
the Charles River along Gerrys Landing Road, providing safe bicycle and pedestrian connectivity to the Eliot Bridge and Dudley White Bike Path along the river; and In a public plan update meeting on February 4, 2020, DCR announced its intention to
of a road layout that preserves the current, dangerous traffic patterns; and A two-way protected bike lane along Gerrys Landing Road would constitute a vital segment of connectivity as envisioned in the 2015 Cambridge Bicycle Plan; and
A two-way protected bike lane along Gerrys Landing Road would constitute a vital segment of connectivity as envisioned in the 2015 Cambridge Bicycle Plan; and Pedestrian and bicyclist safety should be a major priority at this intersection to best
same streets are cars and only 3% are buses; and Cambridge streets including Massachusetts Avenue between Western Avenue and Memorial Drive have been identified as having both high bus ridership and significant
Cambridge streets including Massachusetts Avenue between Western Avenue and Memorial Drive have been identified as having both high bus ridership and significant delays in bus service; and
departments and the MBTA on the feasibility of implementing additional dedicated bus lanes, as well as fully separate protected bicycle lanes, on Massachusetts Avenue and other street corridors with high bus ridership; and be it further
a timely manner. WHEREAS: Many of Cambridge’s major streets, including Massachusetts Avenue, have space for Packet Pg. 347
City Manager City Hall • 795 Massachusetts Avenue • Cambridge • Massachusetts •02139 Packet Pg. 373
^^ ^^^- City Halt • 795 Massachusetts Avenue • Cambridge • Massachusetts •02139 Packet Pg. 524
and efficiently in obtaining additional information that will assist in solving crimes. • The technology will be deployed in the data center at 125 6th Street so that it can connect to the existing systems that support the Police Department and Emergency
Communications. If a cloud-based solution is chosen, then it will be deployed to both 125 6th Street data center and the Microsoft Azure Government Cloud. Microsoft Azure
information must be accessed with ease during emergency responses. • The technology is deployed in the data center at 125 6th Street so that it can connect to the existing CAD/RMS systems that support the Police Department and
and you will have three minutes. Chris Schmidt followed by Alexandra Markiewicz. Chris Schmidt, 17 Laurel Street. Thank you all for considering moving ahead with this. I really appreciate the work that went into the Nexus study and the numbers that we're seeing. It seems
Thank you, Peter Williams fall by Larry Bluestone. Hi, I'm Peter Williams, 35 Homer Avenue. I guess I don't really have a whole lot to add from what you've just heard. I'm really glad to see the energy for this kind of work, and the council
Thank you. Larry Bluestone. Good evening, Larry Bluestone, 18 Centre Street. I just want to echo what everybody has said before me. I fully support the increase that is being proposed tonight. But I think we soon need
Thank you, Alan Sadun, followed by Carolyn Fuller. Hi, Alan Sadun, 17 Pleasant Place. I know the call for this meeting is narrow. And as Councillor McGovern said, this is not the end of the process of understanding the Nexus study. And I
Councillor Marc McGovern 45:40 Thank you, Carolyn Fuller, followed by William McAvinney. Carolyn Fuller, 12 Douglas Street, and I just want to reiterate what everybody else says which
Thank you, Carolyn Fuller, followed by William McAvinney. Carolyn Fuller, 12 Douglas Street, and I just want to reiterate what everybody else says which means I support you passing the petition tonight. But I hope the $20... and I hope you take up
Karl F. Seidman, Consultant 48:19 Jonathan Behrens, 115 Hampshire Streets. I'm going to echo the statements by everyone, pretty much everyone before me and say that this action is good, but we need much further
Councillor Marc McGovern 48:33 Thank you. Lee Ferris. Hi, Lee Ferris, 269 Norfolk Street. I am speaking for the Cambridge Residents Alliance. We
Thank you. Lee Ferris. Hi, Lee Ferris, 269 Norfolk Street. I am speaking for the Cambridge Residents Alliance. We strongly support this increase and $20 is certainly better than $19 and we would like it to go
Come on up, name, address. So, Henry Wortis, 106 Berkshire Street. And I'm speaking for myself and also Our Revolution. We're strong supporters of this as a first step. And the only thing I would add beyond applause
and efficiently in obtaining additional information that will assist in solving crimes. • The technology will be deployed in the data center at 125 6th Street so that it can connect to the existing systems that support the Police Department and Emergency
Communications. If a cloud-based solution is chosen, then it will be deployed to both 125 6th Street data center and the Microsoft Azure Government Cloud. Microsoft Azure
guidelines of this overlay. This is now reflected in 11.207.5.3 Standards for Existing Buildings to permit the type of historical preservation achieved, for example, in the Frost Terrace project. In section 11.207.5.2 Dimensional Standards for AHO, effort has been made to avoid confusions
