Public Hearings PB# 362 -- 101 Rogers Street PAGE
PAGE PB# 363 -- 1908 Massachusetts Avenue 69 P R O C E E D I N G S
On August 18, we have two additional -- we have one special permit hearing, 759 Massachusetts Avenue, an application for a cannabis retail store; and we have a
It's a public hearing on a special permit case for development at 75 to 115 Smith Place. There is no Planning Board meeting on September 1
public hearing on Planning Board Special Permit Case PB 362, an application by the City of Cambridge to convert an existing building at 101 Rogers Street to a multipurpose
an application by the City of Cambridge to convert an existing building at 101 Rogers Street to a multipurpose center known as, "The Foundry."
I do want to introduce, before we move forward, that along with me are Tom Evans from the Cambridge Street Development Authority, which is our partner in this project;
So back to the project, some of you might recall that the city received the building at 100 Rogers Street as part of the community benefits package negotiated during the
that will be a true community asset, combined with the Rogers Street Park, which is really almost across the street from this building.
CRA were just beginning to enter into our formal partnership to facilitate the revitalization of 101 Rogers Street. And that was through the adoption of the Foundry Demonstration
Next slide? So the plan now, you can see Rogers Street is on the left here, and Third Street is on the lower part of the
we call the project limit lines. We are creating a community street on Rogers Street, and we will talk about that with the landscape plan.
Next slide? So I'm just going to walk you through the ground-floor plan. And you can see Rogers Street here is on the left, and the yard and Bent Street is on the
the ground-floor plan. And you can see Rogers Street here is on the left, and the yard and Bent Street is on the right. The two stars represent egress for the building.
right. The two stars represent egress for the building. Guests will be allowed to come in off Rogers Street and off the side yard to invite the public to come from East
Guests will be allowed to come in off Rogers Street and off the side yard to invite the public to come from East Cambridge and from Binney Street and from Rogers Street.
the side yard to invite the public to come from East Cambridge and from Binney Street and from Rogers Street. And you can see the area in gray is the new
the idea is this is a walk-in community. We are providing two ADA spaces on Rogers Street. We will have two-way traffic on Rogers Street.
two ADA spaces on Rogers Street. We will have two-way traffic on Rogers Street. But the notion -- and we work very closely with
the bike goes, where the drop-off zone is right in front of the front door at Rogers Street, but also making it playful enough that people can migrate from the Rogers Park on the
the front door at Rogers Street, but also making it playful enough that people can migrate from the Rogers Park on the right here down this street and have an interactive
So we will have -- the windows will all be replaced, and you can see here this is a view facing Rogers Street at the gable end, and on the left is our loading
Next slide? This is the Bent Street elevation, and this is also where the theater door will be. And on the right, you
This is a view towards the furnace structure right now from the Verizon side of Rogers Street, looking for the Rogers Park. And you can see that furnace building in white
now from the Verizon side of Rogers Street, looking for the Rogers Park. And you can see that furnace building in white is what was structurally needed work.
Next slide? And you can see here the last view of Bent Street. This metal wall is the property line. So we're right up
out, and there can be larger activity that happens here Both on Bent Street and Rogers Street, we wanted to really make this a green statement, and make it a kind of
STEPHANIE COUCH: Hi, this is Stephanie Couch. I live at 10 Rogers Street. JEFF ROBERTS: We can hear you, go ahead.
Saccoccio, you can unmute yourself and begin, thanks. MARIE ELENA SACCOCCIO: Okay, Marie Elena Saccoccio. I live at 55 Otis Street in Cambridge. I'm
MARIE ELENA SACCOCCIO: Okay, Marie Elena Saccoccio. I live at 55 Otis Street in Cambridge. I'm fourth generation East Cambridge, and I served on the
Saccoccio. I live at 55 Otis Street in Cambridge. I'm fourth generation East Cambridge, and I served on the Foundry Advisory Committee. And I have to support what
STEVEN GARDINER: My name is Steven Gardiner. I live at 29 Otis Street. I have been on the Consortium's gathering from the early stages, led very capably by Lesley
HEATHER HOFFMAN: Hello, Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street. And I would like to recognize all of the people who got us to this point. Some of the people here
JAMIE SABINO: Hi, my name is Jamie Sabino. I live at 54 Western Avenue in Cambridge, and I'm a member of the Foundry Advisory Committee, and I've been a member of it
You can begin giving your name and address, please? ILAN LEVY: Yeah, Ilan Levy -- 148 Spring Street. So I'll start by -- the thing I'm a little bit frustrated
public hearing on Planning Board Special Permit Case PB# convert an existing space at 1908 Massachusetts Avenue into a cannabis retail store. CDD staff will begin by
WALTER SULLIVAN: My name is Walter Sullivan. I'm the attorney that represents Porter Square Remedies, a woman and minority-owned business locally, local kid, seeking a
behind me, Laxmi Pradhan. And we're together the applicants for Porter Square Remedies. We're super excited to be in front of the Planning
opportunity to work as a team. The location that we proposed is 1908 Massachusetts Avenue. And just for a reference, this is right in front of the Porter Square
proposed is 1908 Massachusetts Avenue. And just for a reference, this is right in front of the Porter Square Shopping Mall. We've been -- I would like to say that I've
So basically, talking about the family business, we moved to Porter Square area about 20 years ago from Nepal, and we worked -- our family worked in the Porter
we moved to Porter Square area about 20 years ago from Nepal, and we worked -- our family worked in the Porter Square area like my Mom used to work at the Dunkin Donuts
From there, you know, with some savings, we bought this building on Cambridge Street and, you know, this Board -- very Board -- actually approved this project, which
As you go down, we have a lot of engagement with the community. For example, we are part of Union Square Main Street. We've been part of the Union Square Main in
the community. For example, we are part of Union Square Main Street. We've been part of the Union Square Main in Street for twenty years. They have made a lot of
Right now, we are proposing this location in Porter Square. Like I said, my Mom used to work right across the street. It's kind of funny that, you know, we're
know, a dream come true in a way. Also, you know, being across from Porter Square, every time it reminds me of picking up my mother. So I'm
State Police, I was Director of Community Relations for CEOC -- Cambridge Economic Opportunity Committee -- which is located on 11 Main Street.
-- Cambridge Economic Opportunity Committee -- which is located on 11 Main Street. So I know Porter Square. I know it well. What
located on 11 Main Street. So I know Porter Square. I know it well. What we're hoping to do in this establishment here is if you
home, not out in the public in open spaces, including within the Porter Square Remedies; they cannot be consuming it as soon as they walk out of the store and open the package at
the operation of our business. So this is what the current state of Porter Square Remedies' current location looks like. There, you can see a
businesses doing business in Cambridge, the closest to rapid transit than any other one. You can get into Porter Square right next door to the building or walking across the
and Vice-President in their individual capacity of our project from the Porter Square Neighborhood Association. I want to thank you for your time, and I know
Ruth Riles and Susan Hunziger [all names phonetic], on behalf of the Porter Square Neighborhood Association and Sarah Bell.
WAKIKO KERA: Hi, it's actually Wakiko Kera and Cheetah Young (phonetic). We live at 22 Porter Road, and our back porch is adjacent to the parking lot in the rear.
RUTH RILES: I'm Ruth Riles, and I live at 115 Upland Road. You can proceed, thanks.
But I think the notion of this site is directly across the street from Porter Square, MBTA stop, there's a Commuter Rail stop there, there's good bus access, there's
Commuter Rail stop there, there's good bus access, there's Bluebike access. It's as good a place as Harvard Square or Central Square in terms of being very transit-oriented and
Bluebike access. It's as good a place as Harvard Square or Central Square in terms of being very transit-oriented and providing good access for people to come by non-automobiles,
Councillors. We had two community outreach meetings. We had two meetings with the Porter Square Neighborhood Association, and we also met with the Agassiz Baldwin Group
had two meetings with the Porter Square Neighborhood Association, and we also met with the Agassiz Baldwin Group as well.
MARY FLYNN: Okay. WALTER SULLIVAN: So we agreed with the Porter Square Neighborhood Association that we'll work with -- you
seemed to be quite happy with the situation. And when you compare it to Harvard Square and Central Square and other places, you know, it is a
And when you compare it to Harvard Square and Central Square and other places, you know, it is a transportation hub, and there are many, many ways of getting
