Councillor Carlone opened public comment at 6:00 pm. Margaret Drury, 1 Dudley Court, Cambridge stated that she supported ordination of the proposed affordable housing zoning overlay. Due to the soaring costs of housing many black, brown and
community. Most important of all, the overlay would go a long way towards ending the increased de facto segregation in Cambridge This segregation is neither equitable nor defensible. Brennan Waters, 466 Cambridge Street in East Cambridge. The community is hurt whenever a
increased de facto segregation in Cambridge This segregation is neither equitable nor defensible. Brennan Waters, 466 Cambridge Street in East Cambridge. The community is hurt whenever a family has to leave Cambridge because the rent was raised and whenever new parents who love
Brennan Waters, 466 Cambridge Street in East Cambridge. The community is hurt whenever a family has to leave Cambridge because the rent was raised and whenever new parents who love the city move out because they can't afford to buy a house or a condo here or whenever someone
July 8, 2020 Jade Sylvan, 502 Green Street in Cambridge, lives in a multifamily three-story home that would probably not be allowed to be built under a lot of the restrictions that are currently in place. She
stated that she supports the Affordable Housing Overlay. David Sullivan, 16 Notre Dame Avenue in North Cambridge, strongly supports the proposed affordable housing overlay. He believed the housing crisis in Cambridge has become worse over
David Sullivan, 16 Notre Dame Avenue in North Cambridge, strongly supports the proposed affordable housing overlay. He believed the housing crisis in Cambridge has become worse over the last few years. It is important to address the long history of redlining and other racial
developers a chance to compete fairly in all neighborhoods of the city, not just some. Loren Crowe, 8 Museum Way in East Cambridge. She supports the affordable housing Overlay. Council has a mandate to pass the AHO. City should choose to shift zoning ordinance from one
housing overlay as soon as possible and move on to so much more. Esther Hanig, 136 Pine Street in Cambridge. The passage of the Affordable Housing overlay would help to restore both some diversity and social justice to the city. According to the 2017
affordable housing, create true economic and racial diversity in all neighborhoods. Jackson Moore-Otto, 9 Doane Street. Strongly supports the Affordable Housing Overlay. The city needs abundant housing that includes the affordable housing overlay.
city needs abundant housing that includes the affordable housing overlay. Peter Williams, 35 Homer Avenue in West Cambridge. Strongly supports the Affordable Housing Overlay. Cambridge is a wonderful place to live but right now, only the wealthy can
Peter Williams, 35 Homer Avenue in West Cambridge. Strongly supports the Affordable Housing Overlay. Cambridge is a wonderful place to live but right now, only the wealthy can afford to actually buy a home here. The restrictions that lead to this unaffordability have
policies are saying remain, and even more of their consequences linger. Eva Martin Blythe, 7 Temple Street, Cambridge. Spoke in support of the Affordable Housing Overlay. The city needs for more quality, affordable multi-family housing. The inequalities
July 8, 2020 Susan Schlesinger, 34 Glenwood Avenue in Cambridge port. She is a member of the Affordable Housing Trust Fund board. She urged the city council to act quickly on the passage of the
housing overlay. Dan Eisner, 6 Bristol Street. The city's zoning is a quintessential example of systemic racism. Exclusionary zoning was established about a century ago to ensure that certain neighborhoods
overlay not be amended further, and why it must be passed as is. Cathleen Higgins, 345 Norfolk Street in Cambridge. She spoke in support of the affordable housing Overlay. The AHO is about righting the wrongs of racist zoning policies that have
resulted in racially segregated neighborhoods in Cambridge. Bill Boehm, 18 Laurel Street. Spoke in favor of passing the affordable housing overlay. Nearly all public justifications of zoning rests on the constitutionally permissible goals of protecting the
systemic racist structure. Gabe Colombo, 16 Chauncy Street, architecture graduate student at Harvard. Strongly supports the ordination of the affordable housing loan overlay and much more action to encourage and
instances. Jonathan Behrens, 115 Hampshire Street. Strongly supports the affordable housing overlay. November's election gave a clear mandate in support of the AHO. He urged the council to pass
July 8, 2020 Alexander Roederer, 119 Harvard Street. The committee should quickly pass the affordable housing overlay as a modest first step toward creating more affordable housing in our city. Rent
it just makes good economic sense for Cambridge. Lori Thomas, 111 Magazine Street. Urged the council to pass the affordable housing overlay as quickly as possible without further amendment.
quickly as possible without further amendment. Luis Mejias, 18 Plymouth Street. The barriers put in place that perpetuate the inequities and racism of redlining need to be done away with; single family zoning or rather bans on
to move the affordable housing overlay forward. Pawel Latawiec, 2 Earhart Street. Spoke in support of the affordable housing overlay. A key component will be to reduce the soft costs of affordable housing construction. According to the
costs, which the AHO can diminish, go toward lawyers, consultants and banks. Charles Franklin, 162 Hampshire Street. Urged committee to move the affordable housing overlay forward to the council with a favorable recommendation. Cambridge does not need more
Charles Franklin, 162 Hampshire Street. Urged committee to move the affordable housing overlay forward to the council with a favorable recommendation. Cambridge does not need more luxury single family homes in the heart of the city. He would also like to see the income range
live here. Richard Krushnic, 20 Oak Street. He stated that the AHO is the best possible next step that the city can take to create more affordable housing. He recommended adding a 20% requirement for
homeownership units. He recommended a 20% requirement for three-bedroom units or larger. Suzanne Blier, 5 Fuller Place. Sher strongly supports ending zoning for single family homes throughout the city. She stated that the city needs to fund people to be able to buy their homes.
July 8, 2020 Jim Stockard, 141 Oxford Street, is a member of the Affordable Housing Trust Fund. A primary goal for the city is to increase the number of homes for people of modest means. The housing
housing overlay. George Metzger, 90 Antrim Street. The affordable housing overlay petition corrects patterns of development that denied lower income people and people of color from choice and where they
community, we need this council to adopt this overlay. Jessica Schmidt, a resident of Cambridge for over 15 years and lives at 17 Laurel Street. Making housing more accessible to people can only benefit the community. She is in favor of affordable
housing. Burhan Azeem, 35 Speridakis Terrace. We are now looking at a time when perhaps a third of renters are not able to pay rent. We have massive unemployment and perhaps are heading into a
to get them done. This is another bill that we need to get done and we need to get it done soon. Jessica Sheehan, 99 Norfolk Street. She spoke in support of passage of the affordable housing overlay. The overlay will not solve the housing crisis. The crisis extends well beyond Cambridge
Jessica Sheehan, 99 Norfolk Street. She spoke in support of passage of the affordable housing overlay. The overlay will not solve the housing crisis. The crisis extends well beyond Cambridge and was over a half century in the making from the racist redlining maps that still look
that damage and certainly not overnight. The overlay is a modest step in the right direction. Aaron Rosenthal, 88 Hancock Street. Affordable housing is one of the most important issues facing the city. He wants the city to pass the affordable housing overlay as a first step to
in Cambridge. Lauren Curry, 3 Concord Avenue. Spoke in favor of the overlay in order to provide housing for many waiting families.
July 8, 2020 Jean Hannon, 7 Woodrow Wilson Court, spoke in support of the affordable housing overlay zoning petition. She was born and raised in Cambridge but can only afford to live here because
Jean Hannon, 7 Woodrow Wilson Court, spoke in support of the affordable housing overlay zoning petition. She was born and raised in Cambridge but can only afford to live here because she found an affordable unit.
she found an affordable unit. Josh Cohen, 276 Huron Avenue, is a developer of affordable housing across the Northeast. He explained that affordable aousing is driven by the requirements of his funders. Affordable
city. Teresa Cardosi, 7 Woodrow Wilson Court. A lot of time was already put into negotiations for the modifications to the original 100% affordable housing overlay plan. And as no plan is ever
to afford to live in Cambridge. Florrie Darwin, 7 Follen Street, and I'm a member of the Affordable Housing trusts and I've been working on affordable housing issues in Cambridge for over 25 years. And I really thrilled to
Florrie Darwin, 7 Follen Street, and I'm a member of the Affordable Housing trusts and I've been working on affordable housing issues in Cambridge for over 25 years. And I really thrilled to hear all the support that my co Kenta bridges have been calling in and voicing for the affordable
be a very important lever to continue making progress in that direction. Kavish Gandhi, 115 Hampshire Street, spoke in favor of the affordable housing overlay. These changes to zoning standards and the permitting process will allow nonprofit affordable
July 8, 2020 Noah Sawyer,1035 Cambridge Street, real estate for Just-A-Start, one of Cambridge's nonprofit affordable housing developers. Spoke in support for the overlay. There have been several
aggressive offers on and were outbid by developers looking to build luxury housing. Gilberte Houbart, 51 Chilton Street in Cambridge. The city has lost about 18% of the tree canopy in the past 10 years. Trees in the cities are critical to health, both physical and mental. Tree
has most of the canopy in the City. Justin Saif, 259 Hurley Street. Spoke in support of the affordable housing overlay. The affordable housing overlay is a great first step to address the housing crisis in Cambridge.
these additional limits are adopted. Fritz Donovan, 42 Irving Street. The key to quick housing for a lot of people is density. Density now is lethal. Even an elevator in a high rise is lethal. We have a huge responsibility on the
key points. Saul Tannenbaum, 16 Cottage Street. Spoke in support of the affordable housing overlay. This ordinance does not go far enough to undo the legacy of race and class that underlies the land use
the city should be proud, it is only a first step. Aaron Homer, 90 Grozier Road. This is a chance to make progress on two of the most critical problems of our time; climate change and ongoing racial inequities and housing. Urged the
council to pass the overlay quickly and without amendments. Jacquelyn Fahey Sandell, 8 Clinton Street in Cambridge. She supports affordable housing but want developers to abide by current height and setback rules. The pictures that were shown of
and not just a story here and there. Kathleen Moore, 9 Doane Street, asked council to move forward quickly with the affordable housing Overlay .
