local community to finally be connected. He supports the petition. Maure Aronson, 720 Massachusetts Avenue, Executive Director of Global Arts Live. He stated that the petitioners have the support of Global Arts Live. This project is visionary in its architectural approach, it
for the Arts, Inc. Spoke in support of the proposal. This is a visionary and amazing mixed-use design. Brian Amador, 199 Pemberton Street, spoke in support of the project. The city is in dire need of performance spaces that are medium sized and small, and this project would provide both of those smaller
informal spaces on the ground floor and a medium sized, beautiful theatre on the third floor. Ken Field, 108 Pleasant Street, spoke in support of the project. At this time, performing performers and audiences are experiencing an ongoing loss of Performing Arts venues due in large part to the economic
been a good partner or providing dancing space. He fully supports the project. Carl Nagy-Koechlin, Executive Director at Just-A-Start, 1035 Cambridge Street. He spoke in favor of the project. Kendall Square is really at the center of that quest to get low- and moderate-income people, in
November 12, 2020 Anna Myer, 60 Dudley Street, spoke in support of the project. Not only does it bring people into the city, but people that go out to eat, they go shopping, it creates community at Kendall Square.
abutter and as a business partner. He spoke in support of the project. Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street, she stated that she wants the arts, space and the other community spaces to come to pass but does not want to pay too big a price for them. She hopes that in the
understandable zeal for the project that Kendall Square is not overloaded with buildings. Michael Monestime, 4 George Street, spoke in favor of the project. This is not a project that's going to be an eyesore to the neighborhood.
an eyesore to the neighborhood. William Harris, 8 Arlington Street, spoke in support for the project. The connection of indoors and outdoors will be truly unique.
