Thank you. I'm here in support of extension of Mr. DePasquale contract. My name is Ruth Ryan Allen. I Live on 48 Fenno Street. I've been a member of the planning and focus group for the new inclusionary park being developed and built by the Danehy park space. I'm also on the board of the
Susan Ruff Hello, Susan Ralph. I live at 80 Fawcett Street. I've known Louie for 20 plus years, but I'm also the Director of Cambridge youth soccer. So I've been I'm working with him in his role as city manager.
Hello, Susan Ralph. I live at 80 Fawcett Street. I've known Louie for 20 plus years, but I'm also the Director of Cambridge youth soccer. So I've been I'm working with him in his role as city manager. And I fully support extending his contract for another two years. Louie has a passion for this city.
March 12, 2020 Good evening. My name is Mike Nicoloro, I'm a lifelong resident of East Cambridge 156 Spring Street, and I am in favor of extending city manager's contract beyond 2021. I've had the privilege of
which we have our former state representative and city councilor, Saundra Graham. Mr. Slater. Scott Slater Thank you. Hi, I live at number 10 Bigelow Street. So right around the corner. And I've known Louie
Scott Slater Thank you. Hi, I live at number 10 Bigelow Street. So right around the corner. And I've known Louie for about 25 years in many different capacities. One thing that really doesn't get talked about very
impressive friends of mine who were visiting me from out of town can never believe how quickly things are addressed when you make that call. As a resident, I've lived on Bigelow Street for 30 years next month. And most of my neighbors are older than even me, and are on fixed incomes of some
We have always kept it low and have always had students living there since we've lived there. Many... some of my neighbors on Bigelow Street still rent rooms, because under rent control, they lived in rooming houses but they decided even after they did not have to do that anymore, they
Good evening councillors. I'm here to, to support the extension. And hopefully it's double the time that you have an extension. I've known Louie for probably 55 years roughly. I live at 24 Winter Street in East Cambridge. To have a gentleman like Louie get involved with this city. And the love
that you have an extension. I've known Louie for probably 55 years roughly. I live at 24 Winter Street in East Cambridge. To have a gentleman like Louie get involved with this city. And the love he has for the city, the love he has for children and sports and how we solve [sic], you can't get a
Jim Stockard Hello, my name is Jim Stockard, I live at 141 Oxford Street. I want to acknowledge that I first met Louie as the mortal enemy. He was a coach for the East Cambridge All Star Little League team and
Hello, my name is Jim Stockard, I live at 141 Oxford Street. I want to acknowledge that I first met Louie as the mortal enemy. He was a coach for the East Cambridge All Star Little League team and my son played for the North Cambridge team. So I was started off by being pretty mad at Louie. But
Kevin Donaher Hi, my name is Kevin Donaher and I live at 225 Chestnut Street. I'm here to respectfully ask that you do not renew the contract of city manager Louie DePasquale. I first learned about Louie from my
Susan Freitas Hi, my name is Susan Freitas. I have a home at 140 Thorndike Street, Cambridge, East Cambridge that is. I have a small business in East Cambridge. I've known Louie DePasquale for over 50 years.
Hi, my name is Susan Freitas. I have a home at 140 Thorndike Street, Cambridge, East Cambridge that is. I have a small business in East Cambridge. I've known Louie DePasquale for over 50 years. And I don't know anybody better for this job. He is the most dedicated person I know. He was born
Margaret Drury Good evening, Margaret Drury, 1 Dudley Court Cambridge, Massachusetts. I support the extension of city manager DePasquale's contract. During his tenure, Cambridge has been a very well managed
Good evening, Margaret Drury, 1 Dudley Court Cambridge, Massachusetts. I support the extension of city manager DePasquale's contract. During his tenure, Cambridge has been a very well managed and innovative city. The hallmarks of a successful municipality are the development and
Heather Hoffman Hello, Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street. I want to start out by expressing my disappointment that we're having this meeting at all. We shouldn't be meeting. Patrick Barrett’s right, this is a crisis and
Mike Nakagawa Hello. Mike Nakagawa 51 Madison Avenue. I just like to start by saying that I agree with what Heather Hoffman had said except change the neighborhood to Alewife, and I've lost my spouse to
March 12, 2020 Good evening, Madam Chair, council members. My name is Dennis Benzan. I reside at 1 Pine Street in Cambridge. I want to thank all the speakers that came before me. Rob was actually my son's
having enough social justice. When leaders like Louie have exemplified social and economic justice for much of their life. He's the one that he's walking through Central Square-- Councillor E. Denise Simmons
Thank you. I appreciate it Madam Chair. I just want to end by just saying this. I'm a business owner in Central Square. Our city’s about to face one of the most important and critical challenges in the history of this city. I ask you guys to focus your attention on the challenges that lie ahead. Louie is
the little things that matter. I think some people seem to get their concerns addressed and other people don't. On Sunday, the Number 1 bus is going to no longer make the stops around Harvard Yard. It is going to turn down Dunster Street. I would like – I wish that the city administration and
people don't. On Sunday, the Number 1 bus is going to no longer make the stops around Harvard Yard. It is going to turn down Dunster Street. I would like – I wish that the city administration and the management had done a better job advocating for those of us who don't have cars, which is what
