the issues that are outlined which the safe streets, the biking, the affordable housing. And another comment: as we move forward on the Tobin Vassal Lane project, as the Council also recognizes that we're now working to see if we can make that project even more beneficial to the city by working to acquire the armory, it really needs a full court
Christopher Schmidt 30:26 Christopher Schmidt 17 Laurel Street. Thank you very much for your time and for having this meeting. I have been active in Cambridge politics for the past several years, having gotten involved in Cambridge politics after hearing
Christopher Schmidt 17 Laurel Street. Thank you very much for your time and for having this meeting. I have been active in Cambridge politics for the past several years, having gotten involved in Cambridge politics after hearing and seeing the city manager's reticence to move forward with the outcome of the Universal Broadband Task Force.
Thank you for your testimony. Michael Goodman, followed by Alan Green. Michael Goodman 33:25 Hi, my name is Mike Goodman. I live at 237 Franklin Street apartment 811. So I have a prepared statement. So
Michael Goodman 33:25 Hi, my name is Mike Goodman. I live at 237 Franklin Street apartment 811. So I have a prepared statement. So sorry if I drift around, but I also like, I kind of don't - I'm trying to catch on, but like some of the wonky details, I'm
in Florida, why on earth can't the so-called People's Republic of Cambridge? But grocery stores of course aren't the only casualty of our current system. From EMF to Green Street, the so called "cultural district" is losing art space after art space. Faced with a similar problem, Vancouver opened a city owned art space that provides affordable
or non verbally. Thank you. Richard Crushnick 41:35 Richard Crushnick, 20 Oak Street. I wanted to echo the comments of Dennis Carlone and Ben Simon. I agree with
Richard Crushnick 41:35 Richard Crushnick, 20 Oak Street. I wanted to echo the comments of Dennis Carlone and Ben Simon. I agree with some of the things Ben suggested that other cities are doing, not all of them, but the general idea that Ben is
February 19, 2020 Lee Farris 44:49 Good morning, Mayor and councillors and Madam Chair. Lee Farris 269 Norfolk Street. I ask that this committee
Lee Farris 44:49 Good morning, Mayor and councillors and Madam Chair. Lee Farris 269 Norfolk Street. I ask that this committee not take a vote yet on extending the manager's contract, and that instead the committee work to put in place a
Heather Hoffman 48:24 Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street. And I want to talk about what kind of manager we need to take us into the 21st century. For about 40 years, because as was observed, Cambridge was in terrible fiscal shape, our policy has been
Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street. And I want to talk about what kind of manager we need to take us into the 21st century. For about 40 years, because as was observed, Cambridge was in terrible fiscal shape, our policy has been shaped by getting money. It has not been shaped by figuring out how to make this a good place to live in, for the
Saul Tannenbaum 51:39 Hi, I'm Saul Tannenbaum, 16 Cottage Street. Madam Chair, councillors, I'd like to address the city manager's request for extension and that letter, which I found really quite shocking. First, I'll just pose a question: Should the
Carolyn Magid 54:44 Hi, thank you for having me. I'm Carolyn Magid. I live at 71 Reed Street in North Cambridge. I, first of all, I agree with the more negative view of how well Cambridge is serving low and middle income people that's been expressed
Hi, thank you for having me. I'm Carolyn Magid. I live at 71 Reed Street in North Cambridge. I, first of all, I agree with the more negative view of how well Cambridge is serving low and middle income people that's been expressed by many people here. In fact, it seems to me it's hard to miss that that's true. Secondly, I want to agree with the need
Our next speaker is Charles Franklin. Charles Franklin 59:31 Morning Council, thank you for having this hearing. I'm Charles Franklin. I live at 160 Hampshire Street. I think a
Charles Franklin 59:31 Morning Council, thank you for having this hearing. I'm Charles Franklin. I live at 160 Hampshire Street. I think a lot of the criticisms I've heard today have been fair, so I don't want to rehash any of them. So I'm going to keep my
Shelly Wortis 1:01:17 Yeah. Shelley Wortis, I live at 106 Berkshire Street in Cambridge. And I agree with a lot of the comments that were made earlier. And specifically, I think we do need to look ahead at what the search process will be, and to consider
Fritz Donovan 1:05:41 Thank you Madam Chair, Fritz Donovan 42 Irving Street, Cambridge. A veteran of the city since I arrived as a deer in the headlights in 1955 as a freshman, and I'm enjoying it well into my 80s now. What we have here is essentially
Phyllis Bretholtz 1:08:31 Good morning, and thank you for extending the time. I'm Phyllis Bretholtz, I live at 65 Antrim Street. I agree with virtually every comment that's been made so far in terms of the need for transparency in evaluating the city
Alice Heller 1:11:41 Hi – Alice Heller, 22 Corporal Burns Road. I want to not repeat all that's been said, though I echo a lot. I want to represent some neighbors who have question the timing of this important meeting and illuminate the fact that I think
