Councillor McGovern opened the floor to public comment Laura McMurry, 334 Harvard Street, is in favor of the cycling safety ordinance as amended. It will provide rapid installation of many miles of safe protected bike lanes, some using the quick build method.
Kimberley Hunt, 10 Wendell street, stated that the world is accelerating bike infrastructure projects and believes that Cambridge should follow suit. James Williamson, 1000 Jackson Place, stated that he cannot traverse a simple crosswalk safely because
believes that Cambridge should follow suit. James Williamson, 1000 Jackson Place, stated that he cannot traverse a simple crosswalk safely because of the way bicyclists in the city race through red lights and crosswalks. The city has ignored the safety of
pedestrians. John Attanucci, 608 Huron Avenue, works at MIT in the transit lab and chairs the city's transit advisory committee. Generally, he supports the separated bicycle lane plan. He stated that he is concerned about
direction, might not actually satisfy the transportation requirements that the city will need in the future. East Cambridge needs bicycle lanes. She would like to see more holistic approach to street infrastructure. Gavin Lund, 166 Charles Street, we need a dramatic mode shift away from fossil fuel powered vehicles,
East Cambridge needs bicycle lanes. She would like to see more holistic approach to street infrastructure. Gavin Lund, 166 Charles Street, we need a dramatic mode shift away from fossil fuel powered vehicles, to more sustainable modes of transportation of which biking is one. And in particular, there's a huge
pedestrians. Christopher Cassa, 103 Gore Street, stated that defining a place for cyclists to safely ride through our streets that will help improve the safety for cyclists, but also improve general safety on the streets. He
supports moving forward on these issues. Amy Flax, 86 Normandy Avenue, spoke in support of this ordinance. Separated bike lanes, in fact, support many different modalities in terms of transportation, and pedestrians and bikers. If kids don't have
safe alternatives for biking, then their lives are in danger. Itamar Turner-Trauring, 139 Oxford Street, is excited about this ordinance. because It is very important that we transition away from private cars towards things like bikes and buses and in many ways are very
July 7, 2020 Marisa Carlos, 8 Kenwood Street, spoke in support of the ordinance. Cyclists sometimes race through red lights because of a lack of bicycle specific infrastructure. Adding bicycle specific infrastructure, like
bicycle red lights, will help with that. Encouraged the committee to move the ordinance forward. Gleb Bahmutov, 19 Winslow Street, explained that the number one concern with biking is safety. He fully supports this ordinance.
supports this ordinance. Sarah levy, 52 Pearl Street, cycling is a way that people can get around healthily and not cause emissions that cause health issues for others.
In response to a question from Councillor Timothy Toomey, Kathy Watkins explained that the portion of Huron Avenue between Fresh Pond Parkway and Glacken field is in the Bike Plan. The City evaluating how to add a protected bike facilities and a pedestrian connection to the section of Huron Avenue.
Huron Avenue between Fresh Pond Parkway and Glacken field is in the Bike Plan. The City evaluating how to add a protected bike facilities and a pedestrian connection to the section of Huron Avenue. Councillor Timothy Toomey expressed frustration with the lack of outreach to community members and
should consider it as a policy order. He stated that he shared Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler concerns about racial equity. He stated that he did not support the idea of removing Cambridge Street from the ordinance.
