Apr 6, 2020 5. A communication was received from John Pitkin, 18 Fayette Street, regarding War Memorial Recreation Center and Field House and temporary use of side street.
5. A communication was received from John Pitkin, 18 Fayette Street, regarding War Memorial Recreation Center and Field House and temporary use of side street. COM 141 #2020
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
(Calendar Item #5) from 10/7/2019 Central Square Library branch. Vice Mayor Mallon, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (Calendar Item #8)
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Report on the potential for implementing sufficient traffic-calming solutions on Upton Street. Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (O-7) from 1/27/2020
Councillor Simmons, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Carlone (O-1) from Report on working with the residents in the vicinity of Eustis Street to implement traffic calming measures on this street.
anyone who leaves the home; and Closing Memorial Drive to vehicular traffic would create a space for residents to go for a walk or get some exercise while maintaining recommended social distancing
That the City Manager be and hereby is requested to work with DCR to explore closing Memorial Drive for the duration of the Stay at Home order to give people in Cambridge a safe space to exercise and be outside without violating social distancing
closing Memorial Drive for the duration of the Stay at Home order to give people in Cambridge a safe space to exercise and be outside without violating social distancing practices; and be it further
Requirements (a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, or (b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street
(a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, or (b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound.
(b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities are proposed to be Permanent Separated Bicycle
detailing why the extension was necessary by no later than May 1, 2025. D. By no later than May 1, 2022, the City Manager shall complete the installation of continuous Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between
D. By no later than May 1, 2022, the City Manager shall complete the installation of continuous Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting:
Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street;
Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street.
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along Massachusetts Avenue other than (a),
(d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along Massachusetts Avenue other than (a), (b), (c) and (d) are proposed to be Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes, the requirements of
Facilities has commenced prior to the deadline established by this Subsection D, provided, however, that if Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes are to be installed along Massachusetts Avenue from Sydney Street to Inman Street, the requirements of this Subsection D shall be
however, that if Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes are to be installed along Massachusetts Avenue from Sydney Street to Inman Street, the requirements of this Subsection D shall be satisfied so long as the design of such Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes has commenced
block analysis determining the impacts of installing Quick-Build Separated Bicycle Lanes on: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street.
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If, after a review of the analysis, the City Manager determines that Quick-Build Separated
Lane of Adequate Directionality along (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Packet Pg. 73 (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street,
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street, within one year of the City Manager’s submission to the City Council of an analysis of the
Directionality on such blocks within three years of the submission of the impacts analysis. F. Any Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along segment (a) of Subsection E, Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street, must also be separated from Public
F. Any Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along segment (a) of Subsection E, Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street, must also be separated from Public Transportation for the full stretch of that segment.
Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along: (a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, (b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street,
(a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, (b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street, (c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and
(b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street, (c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and (d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street
(c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and (d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound,
(d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound, provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord
from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound, provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord Avenue to the segment of Concord Avenue contiguous to Follen Street shall be improved to
provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord Avenue to the segment of Concord Avenue contiguous to Follen Street shall be improved to meet the needs of users of all ages and abilities.
Perez, Lori FW: Support for Rezoning at 585 3rd Street Support for BioMed Rezoning.pdf
March 30, 2020 In view of the activity at the War Memorial Recreation Center and Field House on Cambridge Center today its use as a temporary shelter for the homeless during the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency seems to be well
On P.O.R.s #2 and #3, it will be great if residents of all ages can make temporary use of some side streets and Memorial Drive for needed socially distant recreation during the Public Health Emergency. I'm sure the Mid- Cambridge Neighborhood Association will be glad to work with the City to identify streets in our area where
Memorial Drive for needed socially distant recreation during the Public Health Emergency. I'm sure the Mid- Cambridge Neighborhood Association will be glad to work with the City to identify streets in our area where this could work.
Center Address: 500 Kendall Street, Cambridge, MA 02142 Corporate Address: 327 Saint Paul Street, Apt. 2, Brookline, MA 02446-3504 P: (617) 642-1444 E: Dan.Yonah.Marshall@gmail.com
(CCCA - www.CCCAonline.org), in support of artists and organizations that had recently lost their space with the closure of Green Street Studios, and other local cultural establishments and support systems. During challenging economic and social times, which have only become tougher with the recent COVID-19 crisis, BioMed has proven many
Center Address: 500 Kendall Street, Cambridge, MA 02142 Corporate Address: 327 Saint Paul Street, Apt. 2, Brookline, MA 02446-3504 P: (617) 642-1444 E: Dan.Yonah.Marshall@gmail.com
and 1.5, with a baby due in August. In October we purchased the home at 207 Lake View Avenue. We were drawn to the generous yard which would allow space for our kids to burn off energy and an area for my husband to
