requirements in the zoning itself and that we revert back to the base for all the existing districts, that the BB alone allowed for the increased height. Similar to actually Central Square. Councillor Dennis Carlone 16:35
So, the CDD memo that was sent to the Ordinance committee and to the council, I think is been left to the pleasure of the council. In terms of Harvard Square in Central Square, the only districts that have this provision, it doesn't really serve the intended purpose. It certainly doesn't
I think like I told the groups in part in Central square, ages ago it seems now. That the zoning really isn't the piece that gets us to a better place to Harvard Square, it's the culture and that by doing this like we didn't Harvard, Central Square and we need to do a lot more in Central
really isn't the piece that gets us to a better place to Harvard Square, it's the culture and that by doing this like we didn't Harvard, Central Square and we need to do a lot more in Central Square, by the way began to change that allowed us to do things like we did in Central Square.
doing this like we didn't Harvard, Central Square and we need to do a lot more in Central Square, by the way began to change that allowed us to do things like we did in Central Square. And we see the positive impacts with that is the hope that this process does something similar.
Cambridge, unique. The overlay itself, the map is difficult to work with. It's a very amorphous large space that covers multiple zones, unlike Central Square, which is essentially a corridor. I think, Charlie, I think the first concern raised by historical is what happens as people try to chop
to allow for them to achieve the intent. This ground floor retail exemption has worked, so far pretty well in Central Square. I see it having a similar impact in Harvard Square. But again, I don't know, I don't know exactly how that's going to turn out. The again, the only thing that really
zone within the overlay provided the structure that contains the use has a main entrance on Massachusetts Avenue, Mount Auburn Street, strike Harvard Street, add Arrow street or Bow street for... period for all other lots, and then at the bottom to strike or findings made.
be zoning district within the overlay may also be allowed as of right so that it's clear that only those uses allowed as of right would have the same allowance if they're along Mass Ave, Mount Auburn Street, Arrow street or Bow street.
those uses allowed as of right would have the same allowance if they're along Mass Ave, Mount Auburn Street, Arrow street or Bow street. Councillor Marc McGovern 71:05
recent contribution... In fact, we did have a contribution made last year it's for the Regent, the Abbott building project right at the corner there, JFK and Brattle Street. So, it was recently approved project by the Planning Board, there was also reviewed by Historical Commission,
parking ratios. And I do think that that is a way for us to address this particular issue. While not doing it here. I know in Central Square; I know I haven't had a minute to look up how exactly it works. But there are different buckets that the parking fund goes into and it seems to me, you
business owners, universities, as well as neighborhood groups, and that each piece of it for represents a give and pull on either side. This particular provision exists in Central Square because I put it there. And in my last presentation on this, I look at that provision now as
January 30, 2020 lot. It has done something recently and may do something when Church Street gets lift off for another decade or so or and when you know the Asana group decides to stop kicking all their
being told in transit nodes about development. That we want to actually increase the density of these districts, more so than other districts. I think it's interesting to note that Harvard Square and Central Square though I put an asterisk next to my name for that one. This is the only place
these districts, more so than other districts. I think it's interesting to note that Harvard Square and Central Square though I put an asterisk next to my name for that one. This is the only place where we penalize development in this way. It is also the most difficult place to address parking
know, what have you. But if a project is built in Kendall Square, arguably the most lucrative part of our city. Such provision doesn't exist. If you build in Porter square, it doesn't exist. If you build in any part of the city but the overlay of Harvard Square in Central Square, this doesn't exist.
of our city. Such provision doesn't exist. If you build in Porter square, it doesn't exist. If you build in any part of the city but the overlay of Harvard Square in Central Square, this doesn't exist. So in my mind, and through discussions with these groups, we came to the conclusion that if
To Councillor... to Councillor Carlone's point, I fully agree with him. And I do believe we need to address this in Central Square, in Harvard Square, you know, for better or worse or whatever. It's been a business district for... it's there. The thing that would ask the council to look at
within the Overlay provided the structure that contains the use has a main entrance on Massachusetts Avenue, Mt. Auburn Street, Harvard Street Arrow Street or Bow Street. For all other lots, the Planning Board may allow by
entrance on Massachusetts Avenue, Mt. Auburn Street, Harvard Street Arrow Street or Bow Street. For all other lots, the Planning Board may allow by special permit the retail use of a lot or structure all or partially within the
recommended deleting Harvard Street and adding Arrow Street to
Harvard Street and adding Arrow Street to the list of streets where
