Public Hearings PB# 360 701-703B Mt. Auburn Street PB# 361 711-727 Massachusetts Avenue
PB# 360 701-703B Mt. Auburn Street PB# 361 711-727 Massachusetts Avenue 9
There is a public hearing for a development at 101 Rogers Street. That is the building that many people know as "the boundary building." The City of Cambridge came to
Rogers Street. That is the building that many people know as "the boundary building." The City of Cambridge came to acquire that building some eight, or six to eight years ago,
Collective, LLC, for a cannabis retail store at 701-703B Mount Auburn Street, within an existing retail space. CDD staff will begin by summarizing why this is
for being here. My name is Megan Kemp. I'm an attorney with Adam Dash & Associates, located at 48 Grove Street, Somerville, Massachusetts. I'm also a Cambridge resident, I
with Adam Dash & Associates, located at 48 Grove Street, Somerville, Massachusetts. I'm also a Cambridge resident, I live in North Cambridge.
started in 2015 in Boston, and they have recently opened a new location for Cushgrove (phonetic) in Central Square. And, as you can see, Marcus has been involved on
so, over the past couple years, we found this property, and it's 701-703 Mount Auburn Street. You can go ahead and go down again. One more.
CATHERINE PRESTON CONNOLLY: This is Lou?  LOUIS J. BACCI, JR.: The parking spots on Mount Auburn Street and that parking area, they are time limited?
LOUIS J. BACCI, JR.: The parking spots on Mount Auburn Street and that parking area, they are time limited? MEGAN KEMP: Correct. I believe those are all
HADEN GUEST: My name is Haden Guest, H-a-d-e-n G- u-e-s-t, and I live on 20 Holworthy Street with my family. JEFF ROBERTS: Thank you. We can hear you.
We can start with the most recent issue of the parking. Your diagram is incorrect. Holworthy Street, half of it is not residential parking, it's actually many people
RUSTY RUSSELL: Sure, thanks. My name is Rusty Russell, Robert Russell, R-u-s-s-e-l-l. I live at 9 Spruce Avenue.
a point of correction that should be implemented in your PowerPoint and in your thinking. Spruce Avenue is not a permitted parking street. It's actually a private street.
Oh, okay, very good. My name is Tim Wieskel, W-i- e-s-k-e-l. I live at 6 Spruce Avenue. JEFF ROBERTS: Thank you. You can go ahead.
you put the installation that's proposed at the center of that circle, the boundary would go out over into Spruce Avenue, which -- as has very correctly been pointed out by
JEFF ROBERTS: And complete the address, yeah. JESSICA PIRES: -- the address is 6 Fairview Avenue in Cambridge.
parking and about foot traffic. I find this to be -- though Mount Auburn Street itself with traffic is really congested, it is like that
RYAN REARDON: Hi, I'm Ryan Reardon, R-y-a-n R-e- a-r-d-o-n. I live at 135 Holworthy Street, Cambridge. JEFF ROBERTS: You can go ahead.
record, even though what I'm going to say is otherwise outside -- Sacred Heart Church is on Mount Auburn Street. Within that complex is an elementary school.
issues, folks will decide to park in Watertown -- the closest street is St. Mary's Street. It comes between Mount Auburn Street and Belmont Street.
closest street is St. Mary's Street. It comes between Mount Auburn Street and Belmont Street. And if in fact the patrons were to park there,
you could give your address, please? KASPAR TOROSIAN: It's 659 Belmont Street in Belmont, Massachusetts. Mount Auburn Street is hardly youth
KASPAR TOROSIAN: It's 659 Belmont Street in Belmont, Massachusetts. Mount Auburn Street is hardly youth area, and to say that kids go to Star Market unchaperoned;
Belmont, Massachusetts. Mount Auburn Street is hardly youth area, and to say that kids go to Star Market unchaperoned; never see that. I don't know what they're talking about.
proceed. AMINATA LAWRENCE: My address is One Brookline Place, Cambridge, Massachusetts. I just want to say that I
CATHERINE WIESKEL: Sure. I'm Catherine Wieskel, W-e-i-s-k-e-l, and I'm at 6 Spruce Avenue. Can you all hear me?
in our memo, on a high level, this area is not necessarily as accessible to transit as, for instance, Harvard Square or Porter Square or a Central Square location. So of course
as accessible to transit as, for instance, Harvard Square or Porter Square or a Central Square location. So of course this area is served by a couple of bus routes -- by three
will be. They used data from surveys done at a site at 1000 Mass Ave, which is sort of between Harvard Square and Central Square, which is also not a project that's directly
Mass Ave, which is sort of between Harvard Square and Central Square, which is also not a project that's directly within -- you know, right there within transit. But it's
the chart that's part of the presentation, it shows one side of Spruce Avenue, and it's labeled as permit parking. At least one of the members of the public indicated that Spruce
of Spruce Avenue, and it's labeled as permit parking. At least one of the members of the public indicated that Spruce is a private way, and that it is not permit parking. Do you
honestly, I don't know the status. I don't know the situation with Spruce Avenue. I'd have to go look it up in the city's parking streets and ways information. So I don't
So I know this intersection well, and my kids went to Haggerty School, and my dearest friend lives on Lawn Street, who I see every week. I've shopped at the Star
STEVEN A. COHEN: You know, we had this discussion in other contexts -- in particular on Mass Ave in Central Square. And in that context, if there were customers out on
reviewed by the Planning Board, but the site is located in the Central Square Overlay District. And in that district, there are thresholds for
loading requirements also can be granted by special permit from the Planning Board in the Central Square Overlay District.
collaborative and integrative process with the City of Cambridge with the community and with our neighbors. I'm truly thankful that the community at Central Square was so
Cambridge with the community and with our neighbors. I'm truly thankful that the community at Central Square was so inviting, so open and so supportive for our vision that we
inviting, so open and so supportive for our vision that we have here at Central Square. And we have a long-term perspective at Central
have here at Central Square. And we have a long-term perspective at Central Square, and we intend to become a more active member of the
the zoning ordinance. The critical piece of this work is in looking at Central Square Overlay District provisions that really allow this project to happen.
These elements in terms of our meeting, we're really seeking to meet the Central Square design guidelines and objectives that the community had set. It has taken a
really kind of dear to a lot of us, especially people who have spent a lot of time in Central Square, as I note a lot of us have.
business and the interesting flow of people in and out of Central Square, and the hotel use is really geared to that. High-quality green and sustainable building design: We went
this site is very centrally located at the heart, really, of Central Square at the intersection of Massachusetts Avenue and Temple Street. And it's surrounded by very significant
Central Square at the intersection of Massachusetts Avenue and Temple Street. And it's surrounded by very significant series of buildings of all types and varieties.
trying to be very sensitive to the fact that along Massachusetts Avenue, of course, there is not only great diversity of buildings and uses, but also in building masses
of the existing building -- again, at the corner of Mass Ave and Temple Street. Next?
vitality, but activation I think is really critical. The street frontage along Massachusetts Avenue, as we know, has already a series of tenants. And we actually
universally accessible to everybody. And as we move along towards Temple Street, this is where we locate the entrance to the hotel and office use,
little over 20 feet, as it conforms to the bulk plane setback, as required by the Central Square District Overlay. So I think we have adhered to all the requirements
And then this other view here, this is now taken along Temple Street, basically looking up towards Mass Ave, and here we can see how the relationship of the proposed
TONY HSIAO: Okay. TOM SIENIEWICZ: -- Temple Street, of course, that I want to see if there's --
on behalf of InTeahouse INC., the second floor office tenant at 727 Massachusetts Avenue. For those of you that don't already know,
has encouraged other accelerators like MIT's The Engine and WeWork to locate in Central Square, further strengthening the business fabric of startups in Cambridge, such that the
One of the key objectives, as you all know, for the Central Square Action Plan, is to preserve the Square's cultural diversity, of which InTeahouse is an integral part.
Specific concerns regarding the hotel proposal are similar to those raised in the Central Square Advisory Committee report, as well as Traffic, Parking and
and all parking and loading spaces from onsite, the proposal for future loading to occur offsite on Temple Street and sharing that loading area with numerous other local
If InTeahouse is forced to move elsewhere, it would be a huge loss to the Central Square Community. Thank you for your time and attention.
spelling your name? And I'll confirm I can hear you. DOUG BROWN: Hi, Doug Brown, 35 Granite Street -- D-o-u-g B-r-o-w-n.
built by their existence. And those other properties include the White Hen Pantry in Porter Square, which changed from residential
And those other properties include the White Hen Pantry in Porter Square, which changed from residential units to hotel; hotel Veritas on Mass Ave in Harvard Square,
Pantry in Porter Square, which changed from residential units to hotel; hotel Veritas on Mass Ave in Harvard Square, and 907 Main Street in Central Square as well, which
units to hotel; hotel Veritas on Mass Ave in Harvard Square, and 907 Main Street in Central Square as well, which replaced units with hotel.
DAN TOTTEN: Yes. My name is Dan Totten, D-a-n as in Nancy -t-o-t-t-e-n as in Nancy. I live at 54 Bishop Allen Drive in Central Square.
in Nancy -t-o-t-t-e-n as in Nancy. I live at 54 Bishop Allen Drive in Central Square. JEFF ROBERTS: Thank you.
every right to weigh in on this project, just like the people from Mount Auburn Street came and got to complain about their things.
fact that the sunlight -- sorry, now we have an ambulance going by, welcome to Central Square. So the person objected -- rightly, I think -- to
recognized as perhaps the most significant historical building of Central Square. Why wasn't it brought before the Historical Commission for there to be an opportunity for
have the bandwidth to do a landmark designation for a building of this importance in Central Square. I -- you know --
and details, high-quality materials, pedestrian scale are wonderful things for Central Square. And we support the work that the applicant has
And then the third thought was that a slight change to the Temple Street elevation could be considered that as the building reads right now, and you sort of saw in
ERIK THORKILDSEN: Yeah. I didn't really understand your first point about Temple Street. You know, I guess at a certain point we could sit here and, you know
sort of like a little hard to understand what the intent is with that particular view, looking south on Temple Street. On the west side, personally I sort of like that
looking forward to see the final result actually created. I think it's a wonderful architectural contribution to Central Square.
Board was reviewing 907 Mass Ave. The hotels were on the opposite end of Central Square. So the zoning was amended to allow a 4.0 FAR for
you know, but again, it would potentially have an impact on the current street itself, probably Temple Street. Then we just made a few points about bicycle
I mean, there's retail in this building, the commercial use, the hotel use. Temple Street's not a very wide street.
And oh, by the way, that's the same for -- I'm not going to speak to every entity on Temple Street, but there are other businesses that operate that same way for -- you
know, the reason that was alluded to just a few minutes ago. Temple Street is extremely narrow. So turning into some of these curb cuts is difficult for trucks. And they
historic building. Point seven: The two-story opening on Temple Street to the hotel leads into a lobby that's like 30 feet
I think it needs some work. The Temple Street side, I understand about the floating aspect of the upper stories, but it's just very
the Mass Ave Corridor -- especially I hear the Corridor of Central Square is very important, and I think is a priority in terms of the -- you know, the visual environment that we
I think over the years in various studies, there have been suggestions that the buildings in Central Square should be taller. And this certainly isn't going to be a
