review of a comprehensive permit application, which has been submitted. This is for development at 2072 Massachusetts Avenue, just north of Porter Square; an affordable housing
submitted. This is for development at 2072 Massachusetts Avenue, just north of Porter Square; an affordable housing development that will be Cambridge before the Board of
Avenue, just north of Porter Square; an affordable housing development that will be Cambridge before the Board of Zoning Appeal for a comprehensive permit, and that will be
public hearings that are currently on the docket; one for a development at 600 Massachusetts Avenue, a residential development in Central Square.
development at 600 Massachusetts Avenue, a residential development in Central Square. And we also expect to have the returning hearing
an electrical transformer substation that's currently planned, and has been announced to be located on Fulkerson Street.
KATHLEEN BORN: My comments will hopefully be brief. For the record, my name is Kathleen Born, 3 Walnut Avenue, Cambridge. I am the Chair of the Cambridge
brief. For the record, my name is Kathleen Born, 3 Walnut Avenue, Cambridge. I am the Chair of the Cambridge Redevelopment Authority, and I am here to speak on behalf of
This major utility infrastructure was previously planned on an Eversource owned site on Fulkerson Street, in uncomfortably close proximity to a playing field, a
The first site -- if you go to the next slide -- that was brought forth was actually Binney Street Park, which sits within the Urban Renewal Plan area, and MXD
Project with their public spaces and their network of public roads, and then the Binney Street Park to the left or to the west.
Flanking it on each side is a transmission zone that allows the cables that are running in Broadway to transition to bend and connect to the substation in the orange area.
plan we've worked hard to locate the substation where it can go best within that -- within that space between Broadway and Binney.
axonometric view where you see the program pieces. Again on the left facing Broadway is the residential tower, the two commercial towers to the north in blue, the subgrade parking
to Volpe on the lower right-hand side, and then down to Broadway across the neighborhoods. And so, some of those slices and rotations allow
this idea of a pathway that connects through to the back of the Akamai building, visually connecting to the Binney Street Park, and then connecting along a pathway further
the residential tower, so you can look past the back side of the Akamai building through to the Binney Street Park in the distance.
MATTHEW CONNOLLY: Okay, great. This is Matthew Connolly. I'm at 13 Cornelius Way. I live in the Linden Park neighborhood, and I'm speaking on behalf of the
Connolly. I'm at 13 Cornelius Way. I live in the Linden Park neighborhood, and I'm speaking on behalf of the neighborhood association there, which consists of about 55
and the East Cambridge neighborhood were all very many concerned when the substation was proposed for Fulkerson Street.
HEATHER HOFFMAN: Hello, Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street. I'm going to start out with some heartfelt and honest things. First, to Alexandria for being our ally,
MARK BOSWELL: Hello, my name is Mark Boswell. I live at 105 Walden Street, Cambridge. And I'm commenting this evening about some of the proposed zoning changes,
And so, there is one station that's within 500 feet away on Binney Street. So that could -- there are 16 bytes in that station. So that could be a reduction of
well in order to -- that's actually how the garage that serves the Ames Street residential -- the Proto building -- if there's full demand in that garage without expanding that
Connector, and there's going to be three of them between Binney Street and Broadway, because two of them are on the Volpe site -- you know, the Volpe site has really
between the garage and either the Volpe site or Galileo Street and Binney Street -- that the loading is on the present roadways next to the Garage.
was I think a few years ago the zoning petition lowered it along Binney Street, and now is -- you know, in order to accommodate these new buildings sort of raising it back up.
LOUIS J. BACCI, JR.: Until you get into the nuisance problem of people trying to park on Broadway and drop off their groceries and their children and the so forth
into a street cleaning situation on my street, and I ended up parking on the other side of Prospect Street on Harvard Street, which was about six blocks away.
broader 106:4 Broadway 21:13 Brode 81:22
