and authorization to borrow $9,000,000 to provide funds for the construction of improvements of the Lexington Avenue and River Street Firehouses. ON OR AFTER JUNE 15, 2020 THE QUESTION COMES ON ADOPTION
and authorization to borrow $237,000,000 to provide funds for the design and construction of the Tobin Montessori and Vassal Lane Upper School. ON OR AFTER JUNE 15, 2020 THE QUESTION COMES ON ADOPTION
PAGE 7 May 18, 2020 5. A communication was received from Lee Farris, 269 Norfolk Street, regarding support for Policy
May 18, 2020 5. A communication was received from Lee Farris, 269 Norfolk Street, regarding support for Policy Order #7, request for a comprehensive, equitable plan for reopening the City.
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
(Calendar Item #5) from 10/7/2019 Central Square Library branch. Vice Mayor Mallon, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (Calendar Item #8)
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Report on the potential for implementing sufficient traffic-calming solutions on Upton Street. Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (O-7) from 1/27/2020
Councillor Simmons, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Carlone (O-1) from Report on working with the residents in the vicinity of Eustis Street to implement traffic calming measures on this street.
Please find attached an order requesting the appropriation and authorization to borrow $9,000,000 to provide funds for the construction of improvements of the Lexington Avenue and River Street Firehouses. These improvements include but are not limited to interior and building system upgrades, HVAC
That $9,000,000 is appropriated, for the purpose of financing the construction of building improvements to the Lexington Avenue and River Street Firehouses; and to meet this appropriation the Treasurer with the approval of the City Manager is
Please find attached an order requesting the appropriation and authorization to borrow $237,000,000 to provide funds for the design and construction of the Tobin Montessori and Vassal Lane Upper School. Construction includes the commencement of demolition and remediation of the existing building and
That $237,000,000 is appropriated, for the purpose of financing the design and construction of the Tobin Montessori and Vassal Lane Upper School; and to meet this appropriation the Treasurer with the approval of the City Manager is authorized to
Requirements (a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, or (b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street
(a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, or (b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound.
(b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities are proposed to be Permanent Separated Bicycle
detailing why the extension was necessary by no later than May 1, 2025. D. By no later than May 1, 2022, the City Manager shall complete the installation of continuous Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between
D. By no later than May 1, 2022, the City Manager shall complete the installation of continuous Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting:
Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street;
Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street.
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along Massachusetts Avenue other than (a),
(d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along Massachusetts Avenue other than (a), (b), (c) and (d) are proposed to be Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes, the requirements of
Facilities has commenced prior to the deadline established by this Subsection D, provided, however, that if Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes are to be installed along Massachusetts Avenue from Sydney Street to Inman Street, the requirements of this Subsection D shall be
however, that if Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes are to be installed along Massachusetts Avenue from Sydney Street to Inman Street, the requirements of this Subsection D shall be satisfied so long as the design of such Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes has commenced
block analysis determining the impacts of installing Quick-Build Separated Bicycle Lanes on: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street.
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If, after a review of the analysis, the City Manager determines that Quick-Build Separated
Lane of Adequate Directionality along (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Packet Pg. 56 (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street,
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street, within one year of the City Manager’s submission to the City Council of an analysis of the
Directionality on such blocks within three years of the submission of the impacts analysis. F. Any Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along segment (a) of Subsection E, Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street, must also be separated from Public
F. Any Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along segment (a) of Subsection E, Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street, must also be separated from Public Transportation for the full stretch of that segment.
Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along: (a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, (b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street,
(a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, (b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street, (c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and
(b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street, (c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and (d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street
(c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and (d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound,
(d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound, provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord
from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound, provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord Avenue to the segment of Concord Avenue contiguous to Follen Street shall be improved to
provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord Avenue to the segment of Concord Avenue contiguous to Follen Street shall be improved to meet the needs of users of all ages and abilities.
traffic so that more space can be given to people. If we don’t do it now, it will be too late when the gridlock returns. I urge the City Manager to consider closing Mass Ave through Central Sq, Harvard Sq, Porter Sq, and Cambridge Street from Inman Sq into E Cambridge, to all vehicles except buses and emergency vehicles — Cars will find their way around,
I urge the City Manager to consider closing Mass Ave through Central Sq, Harvard Sq, Porter Sq, and Cambridge Street from Inman Sq into E Cambridge, to all vehicles except buses and emergency vehicles — Cars will find their way around, but we shouldn’t be going out of our way to convenience those who want to get through our city as quickly as possible.
speeding cars. Let our kids have free reign this summer. Finally - close Memorial Drive for good. Connect our city with its waterfront for its entire length from Arlington to Kendall and Lechmere. If someone wants to drive 50 mph, let them use limited access Storrow. The paths on Memorial
Finally - close Memorial Drive for good. Connect our city with its waterfront for its entire length from Arlington to Kendall and Lechmere. If someone wants to drive 50 mph, let them use limited access Storrow. The paths on Memorial Drive are WAY too narrow to support the number of people who use it. Why force them onto sidewalks that at times are
Sal.DiDomenico@masenate.gov; Martina Matta Opposition to Memorial Drive Closure Dear State and Municipal Officials,
Opposition to Memorial Drive Closure Dear State and Municipal Officials, There has been much chatter and now a formal petition in support of closure of the entire Memorial Drive,
Dear State and Municipal Officials, There has been much chatter and now a formal petition in support of closure of the entire Memorial Drive, purportedly to make the pandemic more tolerable by affording open space for cyclists, skate boarders, runners,
ample open space right there. To be sure, our own Water Department is surrounded by some of the loveliest open space in the city. Of course, Fresh Pond is certainly an impressive open space as well. The impact of closure of Memorial Drive on East Cambridge would be substantial and dangerous. We have
open space in the city. Of course, Fresh Pond is certainly an impressive open space as well. The impact of closure of Memorial Drive on East Cambridge would be substantial and dangerous. We have most of the designated truck routes that are approved for hazardous material as provided in the City's website:
most of the designated truck routes that are approved for hazardous material as provided in the City's website: • Main Street, Galileo Galilei Way, Binney Street, First Street, & Land Boulevard JFK Street between Harvard Square and North Harvard Street in Brighton
• Main Street, Galileo Galilei Way, Binney Street, First Street, & Land Boulevard JFK Street between Harvard Square and North Harvard Street in Brighton • Broadway east of Galileo Galilei Way & Vassar Street north of Rt. 2A (Mass. Ave.)
JFK Street between Harvard Square and North Harvard Street in Brighton • Broadway east of Galileo Galilei Way & Vassar Street north of Rt. 2A (Mass. Ave.) To help
To be sure, our Kendall Square has the highest density Level 3 Lab space in the country if not the world. In the event of any accident, Memorial Drive would be the most direct access route for emergency vehicles to and from the Boston hospitals.
Medal and the Republic of Vietnam Campaign Medal; and Eddie was a former Commander of the VFW Post #299 in Central Square; and Eddie spent countless hours listening to class rock music such as the Moody Blues,
