recommendation in accordance with the requirements of the Massachusetts School Building Authority (MSBA) that the Cambridge City Council adopt an order for the Statement of Interest Form for the replacement of windows at the Cambridgeport School Building located at 89 Elm Street.
Authority (MSBA) that the Cambridge City Council adopt an order for the Statement of Interest Form for the replacement of windows at the Cambridgeport School Building located at 89 Elm Street. CMA 2020 #19
III. APPLICATIONS AND PETITIONS temporary banners on poles on Ames Street, Main Street and Broadway announcing MIT List Visual Arts Center on February 5, 2020 thru April 28, 2020.
Feb 3, 2020 8. A communication was received from Gerald Bergman, 82 Elm Street, regarding City Manager Item #6 lowering the voting age to 16.
ORDER ADOPTED BY AFFIRMATIVE VOTE OF NINE MEMBERS Transportation Department to work with the residents in the vicinity of Eustis Street to implement traffic calming measures on this street.
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
(Calendar Item #5) from 10/7/2019 Central Square Library branch. Vice Mayor Mallon, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (Calendar Item #8)
Vice Mayor Mallon (O-1) from 10/21/2019 officers to work collaboratively with and exclusively within Cambridge Housing Authority premises in and near Central Square and the Port.
officers to work collaboratively with and exclusively within Cambridge Housing Authority premises in and near Central Square and the Port. Councillor Simmons, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-2) from
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
McGovern (O-1) from 11/25/2019 Saville Street and Walden Street Mayor Siddiqui, Vice Mayor Devereux (O-4) from
Report on the potential for implementing sufficient traffic-calming solutions on Upton Street. Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (O-7) from 1/27/2020
Statement of Interest Form to be submitted to the MSBA no later than February 14, 2020 for the replacement of windows at the Cambridgeport School Building located at 89 Elm Street. The Elm Street building’s windows are currently forty years old, with worn out balances, springs
replacement of windows at the Cambridgeport School Building located at 89 Elm Street. The Elm Street building’s windows are currently forty years old, with worn out balances, springs and operating sash hardware. Cold air leakage frequently overwhelms the heating system,
Statement of Interest Form dated no later than February 14, 2020 for the Cambridgeport School located at 89 Elm Street, Cambridge, which describes and explains the following deficiencies and the priority category for which an application
The funds are sought to be used for the replacement of the building’s windows; and The Elm Street building’s windows are currently forty years old, with worm out balances, springs and operating sash hardware; cold air leakage frequently overwhelms
committee member Councillor Siddiqui. So before we get started, just wanted to make a couple of quick announcements. Michael Monestime from the Central Square BID wanted to join us but unfortunately he won't be able to be here tonight. He sent us a message that said "I'm sorry my
the Caribbean and African Diaspora. Our festival stakeholders to make this work are Mas Bands which are the costume groups, steel bands, and our artists. And it's held in Central Square Cultural District since its beginning. That's definitely been the heart and soul of Carnival- Central
which are the costume groups, steel bands, and our artists. And it's held in Central Square Cultural District since its beginning. That's definitely been the heart and soul of Carnival- Central Square. A snapshot of Carnival across the world: You have it in your document but there are 24
we did in Carl Barron Square. And over the years, we've sort of evolved we've moved from Central Square to Kendall Square, because we outgrew it. And so the first 10 years we were in Central Square, and we ended up in Kendall Square in 2005. Our current programs- we have an
Central Square to Kendall Square, because we outgrew it. And so the first 10 years we were in Central Square, and we ended up in Kendall Square in 2005. Our current programs- we have an annual International Festival and Parade. We have community collaborations with various
Neighborhood & Long Term Planning, Public Facilities, Arts & Celebration CommitteeDecember 19, 2019 needs to be recognized as such in the Central Square Cultural District. Our city seeks to promote diversity and celebration in all cultures, and to support and stimulate the public purpose
Technology Square, resulting in two individuals being shot, and several other individuals being trampled. A secondary shooting, believed to be related to that shooting, occurred on River and William Street. Several houses were damaged, we recovered a large caliber weapon, and we
trampled. A secondary shooting, believed to be related to that shooting, occurred on River and William Street. Several houses were damaged, we recovered a large caliber weapon, and we made several arrests based on both of those shooting incidents. The video of that event I can
can't stress, were wonderful to work with. I can't stress that enough. I conducted several meetings between the Cambridge Carnival Committee board and then that larger intergovernmental group. We facilitated meetings between what was then the Central Square
meetings between the Cambridge Carnival Committee board and then that larger intergovernmental group. We facilitated meetings between what was then the Central Square Business Association and the Cambridge Carnival board. We held two committee meetings, one
intergovernmental group. We facilitated meetings between what was then the Central Square Business Association and the Cambridge Carnival board. We held two committee meetings, one in conjunction with the board, and Central Square and MIT, and then one that we held alone.
Business Association and the Cambridge Carnival board. We held two committee meetings, one in conjunction with the board, and Central Square and MIT, and then one that we held alone. And then we conducted several internal planning sessions where different policing strategies
Yes, thanks for this opportunity. When I first came to this city in 1973, you know, it was the early days of Cambridge, and I used to walk from Central Square to Harvard Square. And that route was filled with nightclubs, and, you know, Cambridge has a wealth of diversity that it was this
days of Cambridge, and I used to walk from Central Square to Harvard Square. And that route was filled with nightclubs, and, you know, Cambridge has a wealth of diversity that it was this uh, you know, just walking from Central Square to Harvard Square at night was like, that was
was filled with nightclubs, and, you know, Cambridge has a wealth of diversity that it was this uh, you know, just walking from Central Square to Harvard Square at night was like, that was my joy. You know, I was in high school, but just doing that made me feel alive. Speaking on the
Thank you. James Williamson is next. Thanks so much, James. Three minutes. James Williamson Thanks. James Williamson, 1000 Jackson Place in Cambridge. I guess I want to start with a
James Williamson Thanks. James Williamson, 1000 Jackson Place in Cambridge. I guess I want to start with a little bit of my own experience. I was sitting on a bench behind the reviewing stand in 2017,
are not from the city. It's like asking for a combustion. And I'll give you one more example. And this again was during Commissioner Haas. Some Caribbean people on Prospect Street had an annual party. And someone called about noise. And the police came and told them to turn down
something that Councillor Carlone said around we don't have museums here. We do have a museum in Central Square, the MIT Museum, and it's going away. I don't know what MIT's plans for the first floor of that building. It's right here in the cultural district. We've been thinking a
lot about how do we bring more arts and culture into the Cultural District to make sure that it isn't...all the arts and culture don't just leave Central Square and we say, jeez, isn't that too bad? So is there a way to be intentional around that space here in Central Square to really think
isn't...all the arts and culture don't just leave Central Square and we say, jeez, isn't that too bad? So is there a way to be intentional around that space here in Central Square to really think about a Caribbean Cultural Center to again, add on that layer of this isn't just this one thing. So I
Neighborhood & Long Term Planning, Public Facilities, Arts & Celebration CommitteeDecember 19, 2019 we tie it to Central Square? But again, these are not overnight decisions. But we're, I'm hearing you.
Nicola Williams I just want to mention too that Michael Monestime said that the Central Square BID, because he's aware of this plan, can help.
• Festival stakeholders are Mas Bands, Steel Pans, Artists • Held in the Central Square Cultural District Cambridge Carnival Public Hearing, December 19, 2019
• Held in the Central Square Cultural District Cambridge Carnival Public Hearing, December 19, 2019 Packet Pg. 63
• “Jamborees” held in the Carl Barron Plaza/Square over the years • The festival was held at University Park as a small street fair. The parade started at Blackstone street and went up Western Ave and through Central Square.
• The festival was held at University Park as a small street fair. The parade started at Blackstone street and went up Western Ave and through Central Square. • The festival moved to Central Square after few years due to growth and construction
Blackstone street and went up Western Ave and through Central Square. • The festival moved to Central Square after few years due to growth and construction being held in University Park.
• The festival moved to Central Square after few years due to growth and construction being held in University Park. construction in Central Square
being held in University Park. construction in Central Square • A few more years later for only one year the river on Memorial Drive due to
construction in Central Square • A few more years later for only one year the river on Memorial Drive due to Cambridge Carnival Public Hearing, December 19, 2019
• A few more years later for only one year the river on Memorial Drive due to Cambridge Carnival Public Hearing, December 19, 2019 Packet Pg. 65
• The outcome of the meeting resulted in a new location of Kendall Square accompanied by a parade route that began on Sidney Street • In 2008, based on community feedback and input (especially from seniors), we worked with
• In 2008, based on community feedback and input (especially from seniors), we worked with City to reclaim our old route starting from the River Street Cambridge Carnival Public Hearing, December 19, 2019
City to reclaim our old route starting from the River Street Cambridge Carnival Public Hearing, December 19, 2019 Packet Pg. 66
• Community Collaborations: – Margaret Fuller House, Moses Youth Center, Walden Square Community Association, Fletcher Maynard Academy, Community Art Center, Central Square
– Margaret Fuller House, Moses Youth Center, Walden Square Community Association, Fletcher Maynard Academy, Community Art Center, Central Square Cultural District
TASTE OF CARNIVAL • 2nd Taste of Carnival is organized by Cambridge Carnival International in collaboration with the Central Square Cultural District and Cambridge Arts
• 2nd Taste of Carnival is organized by Cambridge Carnival International in collaboration with the Central Square Cultural District and Cambridge Arts with support by the City of Cambridge.
with support by the City of Cambridge. • To be held, February 29, 2019, 12-7pm in the Central Square Cultural District, Christian Life Center, 85 Bishop Allen Drive.
• To be held, February 29, 2019, 12-7pm in the Central Square Cultural District, Christian Life Center, 85 Bishop Allen Drive. • An indoor community festival celebrating the Caribbean and African Diaspora
CULTURAL PRESERVATION - A SUSTAINABILITY PLAN • Cambridge Carnival International is an important and key cultural event that needs to be recognized as such in the Central Square Cultural District
• Cambridge Carnival International is an important and key cultural event that needs to be recognized as such in the Central Square Cultural District • The City seeks to promote diversity and the celebration of all cultures in order to
recommended that the City reconsider the role and purpose of the Recycling Center located at 147 Hampshire Street behind the Department of Public Works in 2020 and consider implementing a mobile Recycling Center within the next three to four years;
COUNCILLOR TOOMEY WHEREAS: Many residents in the vicinity of Eustis Street have voiced concerns about the street WHEREAS:
having become a major artery for vehicles, which has led to the lower end of the street (between Arcadia Street and Harris Street) to become plagued with potholes and deteriorating to an unsatisfactory condition; now therefore be it
Traffic, Parking and Transportation Department to work with the residents in the vicinity of Eustis Street to implement traffic calming measures on this street; and be it further
That the City Manager be and hereby is requested to confer with the Department of Public Works on repairing Eustis Street, and to report back to the City Council on this matter in a timely manner.
It has come to the attention of the City Council that as part of their ongoing “On the Wall Gallery” program, the Central Square Branch Library will host an exhibit called “The Olive Trees are Weeping: Visions of Occupied Palestine through Fiber Art and
Wall Gallery” program, the Central Square Branch Library will host an exhibit called “The Olive Trees are Weeping: Visions of Occupied Palestine through Fiber Art and Photographs”; and
It has come to the attention of the City Council that as part of their ongoing “On the Wall Gallery” program, the Central Square Branch Library will host an exhibit called “The Olive Trees are Weeping: Visions of Occupied Palestine through Fiber Art and
Wall Gallery” program, the Central Square Branch Library will host an exhibit called “The Olive Trees are Weeping: Visions of Occupied Palestine through Fiber Art and Photographs”; and
