had approached me individually, to help bridge what I think were personal issues between the groups in terms of vision for set for Harvard Square. They had seen the work that was done by myself, George Metzger and the central square Business Association in Central Square and I think in some way were
terms of vision for set for Harvard Square. They had seen the work that was done by myself, George Metzger and the central square Business Association in Central Square and I think in some way were envious of the process that we had. Where we had brought groups together by doing a very [sic]
in the guidelines in the overlay. This change simply corrects that omission. We add that there is a requirement to consider the Harvard Square Conservation guidelines when looking at zoning in the Harvard Square overlay. Much like in central square where the Central Square design guidelines are
requirement to consider the Harvard Square Conservation guidelines when looking at zoning in the Harvard Square overlay. Much like in central square where the Central Square design guidelines are directly referenced. One thing I will point out in these slides at the very bottom I have a marker for
petition represents a give and take from either these groups and that no one piece on its own stands because much like with Central Square, this was a much, much thought through and bargained for agreement. But each group came at it with their own perspectives, their own desires. And that this is this
December 11, 2019 happen, and I've had this experience myself as an attorney in Central Square, where it's very difficult to convene these boards because they're so often not meeting that they tend to stray away. And that even
requirement for monthly meetings may become arduous for members, but I think it's actually quite the opposite. That these areas Central Square and Harvard Square, especially, are hotbeds for activity. There's always something happening. There's always something to talk about. And there's no reason why these
retail is not allowed. It's an interesting aberration, I believe an antiquated in our zoning code. I have enumerated specific streets and the planning board had pointed out that Harvard Street was not a street they were interested in expanding this used to, and I embarrassingly had to admit that I forgot to put
December 11, 2019 and in Central Square, largely thanks to the efforts of a couple years ago. The only two places in the city where there is a buyout option for parking, we are proposing to do away with this buyout option. This is
surprising. But I think given the greater goal of what these groups are trying to achieve, it doesn't make sense to continue this practice further. As the person who introduced it into Central Square, to date, it has generated no funds. It doesn't, I have no anticipation of doing so. And ultimately, I believe it was a
Slowly market central is getting the idea but other people have adopted this very easily. At my location on Main Street in central square. I found a tenant right away that was ready to take over 10... 1,050 square feet that I exempted to build a fifth story on my building, or a portion of that at least. And the rent is
you tack on taxes, insurance, the maintenance piece, and then the common area maintenance. So, this provision in my opinion has been successful in Central Square. I don't think it will be as successful in Harvard Square only because there's a historical component to that, not all buildings can be sliced up this
provision in my opinion has been successful in Central Square. I don't think it will be as successful in Harvard Square only because there's a historical component to that, not all buildings can be sliced up this way. But it will make a difference it will be used, there will be developers who are building their spaces
Okay, this is the only provision so far from which we've received some negative feedback from the community. This is very similar to what was introduced into Central Square, however, it's a bit more stringent. We are taking the footprint of banks, financial institutions and cannabis retail, a use which
didn't exist at the time of the central square petition and reducing it to a 20-foot maximum. And can you take over no more than 30% of the facade of a building. In Central Square, we made it 25 feet. But we City of Cambridge
take over no more than 30% of the facade of a building. In Central Square, we made it 25 feet. But we City of Cambridge Page 6
December 11, 2019 also made it a special permit to, to get around in. The reason for that was in Central Square, we did not have the market penetration that banks have in Harvard Square. As I mentioned earlier, the Harvard
also made it a special permit to, to get around in. The reason for that was in Central Square, we did not have the market penetration that banks have in Harvard Square. As I mentioned earlier, the Harvard Square neighborhood group had conducted a study where in it was discovered that 44% of the entire
best course of action. The Planning Board had made the recommendation that had been expanded to 25 feet and a special permit likewise in Central Square. I, from my personal and professional opinion, I believe that we, we did the right thing initially.
their opinion, and while I am eternally an optimist and believe nothing is impossible. I don't believe that this actually is as restrictive as they, as they took it to be in Central Square we have, we will have four cannabis, three cannabis retail stores, opening up over the course of the next year. We have one medical
that's trying to figure it out. Of those two, of those three retail spaces, two of them would comply with this ordinance, if was passed tomorrow in Central Square. So again, they do have the ability to open up. It's just they don't have the ability to command the amount of frontage that other users do. And the reason for
one. So fast food special permit if you don't know it, now, you know. This is been somewhat of a thorn in the side small businesses for quite some time. In Central Square, we remove the fast food provision cap, but we didn't remove the requirement for a special permit across the city. If you are familiar with the
preserve. That's the whole reason why this group got together for two years to revise the Conservation District guidelines. There are plenty of other places in the city, Central Square, where you could add height and build a ton of housing. I just, with this group in particular, the goal was to find common
Patrick Barrett 51:48 So unlike Central Square, Harvard Square has much larger real estate groups at play. There are several local landlords that do own a good portion of the property in Harvard Square. All of whom were
So unlike Central Square, Harvard Square has much larger real estate groups at play. There are several local landlords that do own a good portion of the property in Harvard Square. All of whom were City of Cambridge
that they want to, they want to see. A lot of what this petition really is, is about as a cultural change, which we saw happen in Central Square and we're still seeing happen. Can I guarantee you that Asana will wake up tomorrow and their heart will be four times bigger than it is today? Absolutely not. I can tell
happen, but this changes the landscape in terms of what they can do. And in doing so will make them look at it like it did in Central Square. They will [sic] people who would normally not have thought to do what some developers are currently proposing to do in terms of breaking up those retail facades and
think I understand what you're saying in terms of the limitations, but I look at the map. And I see a big parking lot on Church Street that's inside this, the zoning area. So is there some way that we can say, you know, if the, if the lot is vacant or a certain amount vacant then you have to build a certain amount of
food just about with a few exceptions, in terms of the use, because it's really not hitting one boxes hitting several. And I believe the cap was originally was put in place in Central Square because of trash, because everyone was using those polystyrene boxes. So, you know, this group, this is sort of outside the scope of
everyone was using those polystyrene boxes. So, you know, this group, this is sort of outside the scope of what they're doing. But, you know, as a representative of the business community in Central Square, we are preparing all of our tenants for larger changes in terms of how they do things. In a lot of ways, It's
zoning petition. I wanted to say I really liked the spirit and the creativity of activating the non-arterial streets in Harvard Square like we did in Central Square. So those streets like Bow street, Arrow Street, Mount Auburn, not Harvard. I mean, I'm curious, the Planning Board mentioned that many of the retail
streets in Harvard Square like we did in Central Square. So those streets like Bow street, Arrow Street, Mount Auburn, not Harvard. I mean, I'm curious, the Planning Board mentioned that many of the retail locations there are non-conforming right now and this would bring them into conformity. Is there an
business. And in the Planning Board, they mentioned that this approach around the special permit criteria is different than what we had done in Central Square. I'm just curious why that approach was different? Patrick Barrett 1:08:49
We also didn't have a formula business ordinance in place at all, which I think its sort of questionable as to where and how it applies. But that was the only way I could even get past go in Central Square was to at least create a different channel for chains. In Harvard Square, I made it so that these non-arterial streets,
to where and how it applies. But that was the only way I could even get past go in Central Square was to at least create a different channel for chains. In Harvard Square, I made it so that these non-arterial streets, arterial streets would go specifically to non-formula businesses, as it seemed the most logical place for
So, you're learning and growing as you go? Okay. Does that mean that you will, this is outside the scope of this conversation, but I hope that means that you will go back to Central Square and... Patrick Barrett 1:10:06
treatments. In terms of banks, the Planning Board did recommend using the same provisions that currently exist in Central Square of having a 25-foot frontage limitation and allowing variation by special permit. The board finds that helpful to be able to deal with, with case by case scenarios and not end up in
I'm good. My name is Robert LaTremouille. I am the advancement of the three citizen initiative zoning petitions, which constitute said 85% of the zoning on Massachusetts Avenue from the former [sic] Harvard building to City Hall. Simultaneous with this meeting is a meeting of Mass DOT, directly
petitions, which constitute said 85% of the zoning on Massachusetts Avenue from the former [sic] Harvard building to City Hall. Simultaneous with this meeting is a meeting of Mass DOT, directly overlapping the discussion for this meeting. They are discussing the Harvard properties in the massive
main entrance from five stated streets. English translation, all office and residential zoning districts between Mass Ave and Memorial Drive, subject to a bunch of bootstrapping by letter, are trashed. They are not residential districts. They are not office districts. They are retail districts. Period.
Thank you, Robert. That's three minutes. Elizabeth is next, followed appropriately by Fritz Donovan. Elizabeth Gombosi, 42 Irving Street 2:04:59 I am Elizabeth Gombosi. I live at 42 Irving Street. I won't address the several sensible changes proposed,
Elizabeth Gombosi, 42 Irving Street 2:04:59 I am Elizabeth Gombosi. I live at 42 Irving Street. I won't address the several sensible changes proposed, although I believe that they will help provide Harvard Square with the boost it needs to once again
I am Elizabeth Gombosi. I live at 42 Irving Street. I won't address the several sensible changes proposed, although I believe that they will help provide Harvard Square with the boost it needs to once again become a vibrant destination for residents as well as visitors. What I would like to note is that this is
Thank you. Fritz is next, followed by Tom Lucey. Fritz Donovan, 42 Irving Street 2:06:14 Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, Madam Vice Mayor, Councillors of the Ordinance committee, I'm Fritz
Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, Madam Vice Mayor, Councillors of the Ordinance committee, I'm Fritz Donovan, resident of 42 Irving Street, Cambridge. I'm here to record my enthusiastic support for the Harvard Square zoning petition on tonight's agenda. With the holidays thundering down on us just a few
Donovan, resident of 42 Irving Street, Cambridge. I'm here to record my enthusiastic support for the Harvard Square zoning petition on tonight's agenda. With the holidays thundering down on us just a few days away. I'm fondly reminded of the decades starting with my 1955 arrival, when I did almost all my
Thank you, Tom. Next is Nicola Williams, followed by Robert Winters. Welcome Nicola. Nicola Williams, 8 Brewer Street 2:09:50 Good evening, everyone. Councillor Simmons, to you as well. So, I really appreciate the dialogue and
Good evening, everyone. Councillor Simmons, to you as well. So, I really appreciate the dialogue and discussion and the opportunity today. I'm at 8 Brewer Street by the way. I'm a proud signer of the petition, the Blier petition, and I'm speaking on behalf as a Harvard Square business owner for 25 years, a resident
discussion and the opportunity today. I'm at 8 Brewer Street by the way. I'm a proud signer of the petition, the Blier petition, and I'm speaking on behalf as a Harvard Square business owner for 25 years, a resident in Harvard Square for 32 years, a member of the Harvard Square Neighborhood Association, Harvard
Thank you, Nicola, Robert Winters. Robert Winters, 366 Broadway 2:12:39 Robert Winters, 366 Broadway. And I just like to speak in enthusiastic support of the petition in general.
But I'd like to make just a few specific statements. And these are statements that I could say just as well about Harvard Square, as Central Square and various other places. One of the terms that I Introduced when the K2C2 process was happening in the Central Square was the need to produce, promote retail
about Harvard Square, as Central Square and various other places. One of the terms that I Introduced when the K2C2 process was happening in the Central Square was the need to produce, promote retail diversity. In other words, how do you actually find places where they are a little bit more affordable, a
the calculus for doing that, that I've been speaking of for over 20 years, is the importance of promoting active uses on the side streets and the back streets. Harvard Square is sort of natural for it, but Central Square could do it too, as well. One of the things that I like about this is that it actually delineates
please come up. And if your last name isn't Blier, please correct me. Suzanne Blier at 5 Fuller Place 2:16:30 I go by anything. Thank you and I Live at 5 Fuller Place. And I want to thank everybody who has
Suzanne Blier at 5 Fuller Place 2:16:30 I go by anything. Thank you and I Live at 5 Fuller Place. And I want to thank everybody who has participated in this and I thought it would take this opportunity to just address a couple of the great
again, going through the Historical Commission. Suzanne Blier at 5 Fuller Place 2:18:23 I should also add that Harvard Square, it's very unique, its owned principally by six property owners,
Suzanne Blier at 5 Fuller Place 2:18:23 I should also add that Harvard Square, it's very unique, its owned principally by six property owners, three of whom are here, and the other two representing or owner of trinity, of a, Gerald Chan and then
as of last night at the Planning Board, they received their certificate of, whatever it was, appropriateness maybe, and moving forward with the, with, with 31 Church Street. Looking forward to the 10 Church Street development. One of the things that you in fact, Mr. Chair recommended and we're going to add to
Who are you pointing to? Oh? Welcome. Marilyn Meyer, 10 Dana Street 2:28:09 Hi, Marilyn Meyer, 10 Dana Street. I don't know how... What I can actually add, and I apologize if I'm
Marilyn Meyer, 10 Dana Street 2:28:09 Hi, Marilyn Meyer, 10 Dana Street. I don't know how... What I can actually add, and I apologize if I'm belaboring. But this whole idea of zoning is slightly outside my wheelhouse. There's a lot of details I have
Areas of Special Planning Concern in which all projects above a certain size threshold would be subject to non-binding “Development Consultation” procedures. Harvard Square and Central Square have standing advisory committees for the purpose of conducting Large Project Review consultations as well
Harvard Square Overlay District Zoning Petition – Memo to Planning Board Envision Cambridge Unlike Central Square and Kendall Square, there has not been a recent comprehensive area planning
Envision Cambridge Unlike Central Square and Kendall Square, there has not been a recent comprehensive area planning study for Harvard Square. However, the recently completed Envision Cambridge citywide
Unlike Central Square and Kendall Square, there has not been a recent comprehensive area planning study for Harvard Square. However, the recently completed Envision Cambridge citywide comprehensive plan includes many recommendations and actions that are relevant to Harvard Square
inclusive entrepreneurship, including increasing density and use mix in targeted areas along Massachusetts Avenue to build the customer base for retail; Increase overall housing production, including changing zoning to enable more housing along
mitigation or alternative ways that applicants can offset their impacts on parking, street, and curb demand in Harvard Square. Also, the petition would retain existing base minimum parking requirements that are higher than in Kendall Square and Central Square, where they were reduced.
demand in Harvard Square. Also, the petition would retain existing base minimum parking requirements that are higher than in Kendall Square and Central Square, where they were reduced. November 14, 2019
from 3.00 to 4.00 to be consistent with the maximum FAR established for non-residential development. The maximum residential FAR in Central Square was similarly increased through a zoning petition in such as Kendall Square. The base zoning for the Business B district is a FAR of 2.75 for non-residential
rooftop addition, as well as some demolition and new construction. The proposed redevelopment of 10 Church Street (former Harvard Square movie theater), currently before the Cambridge Historical Commission, also plans to seek a special permit to increase the height to 66’-10” to achieve the
The petition proposes a GFA exemption for retail spaces of 1,500 square feet or less. A similar exemption was added to the Central Square Overlay District in 2017, though it is restricted to the Business B district. The reason for encouraging smaller spaces is that they tend to be more desirable to
The petition proposes allowing all uses currently allowed in the Business B district as-of-right in any office or residential district in the HSOD, as long as the building has a main entrance on Massachusetts Avenue, Mt. Auburn Street, Harvard Street, or Bow Street. The effect of these changes would make
office or residential district in the HSOD, as long as the building has a main entrance on Massachusetts Avenue, Mt. Auburn Street, Harvard Street, or Bow Street. The effect of these changes would make some existing retail uses conforming where they are currently not, which would give them flexibility to
could provide more, potentially lower-cost options to tenants who cannot afford a location on a more prominent street. Most of these areas already contain non-conforming retail uses; however, Harvard Street is predominantly residential and institutional within the HSOD, so it is less clear whether as-of-
more opportunities for a more diverse range of retailers, it creates some exceptions for “Formula Businesses” as they were defined during the most recent zoning amendment for the Central Square Overlay District. Zoning cannot prohibit specific businesses or business owners, but can regulate the
Fast Order Food Establishments that qualify as Formula Businesses would continue to require a special permit. This approach is different from the special permit requirement in Central Square, and it is difficult to anticipate what the overall effects would be.
occupying more than 20 feet of building frontage and 30% of a lot’s aggregate building frontage. A similar provision exists in Central Square, except that the frontage limit is set at 25 feet and authority is given to the Planning Board to issue a special permit for applicants that seek to exceed these thresholds.
er St Ross S t Ash Street Pl
Ross S t Ash Street Pl Hilliard St
Ash Street Pl Hilliard St erry St
h S Ash Street Pl H illia rd S t
No Bow Street, otherwise allowed by Planning Board or BZA special permit unless it is a Formula Business. Bow Street, otherwise prohibited.
Bow Street, otherwise allowed by Planning Board or BZA special permit unless it is a Formula Business. Bow Street, otherwise prohibited. Note: This table reflects CDD staff analysis; refer to zoning petition for details.
requirements in the zoning itself and that we revert back to the base for all the existing districts, that the BB alone allowed for the increased height. Similar to actually Central Square. Councillor Dennis Carlone 16:35
So, the CDD memo that was sent to the Ordinance committee and to the council, I think is been left to the pleasure of the council. In terms of Harvard Square in Central Square, the only districts that have this provision, it doesn't really serve the intended purpose. It certainly doesn't
I think like I told the groups in part in Central square, ages ago it seems now. That the zoning really isn't the piece that gets us to a better place to Harvard Square, it's the culture and that by doing this like we didn't Harvard, Central Square and we need to do a lot more in Central
really isn't the piece that gets us to a better place to Harvard Square, it's the culture and that by doing this like we didn't Harvard, Central Square and we need to do a lot more in Central Square, by the way began to change that allowed us to do things like we did in Central Square.
doing this like we didn't Harvard, Central Square and we need to do a lot more in Central Square, by the way began to change that allowed us to do things like we did in Central Square. And we see the positive impacts with that is the hope that this process does something similar.
Cambridge, unique. The overlay itself, the map is difficult to work with. It's a very amorphous large space that covers multiple zones, unlike Central Square, which is essentially a corridor. I think, Charlie, I think the first concern raised by historical is what happens as people try to chop
to allow for them to achieve the intent. This ground floor retail exemption has worked, so far pretty well in Central Square. I see it having a similar impact in Harvard Square. But again, I don't know, I don't know exactly how that's going to turn out. The again, the only thing that really
zone within the overlay provided the structure that contains the use has a main entrance on Massachusetts Avenue, Mount Auburn Street, strike Harvard Street, add Arrow street or Bow street for... period for all other lots, and then at the bottom to strike or findings made.
be zoning district within the overlay may also be allowed as of right so that it's clear that only those uses allowed as of right would have the same allowance if they're along Mass Ave, Mount Auburn Street, Arrow street or Bow street.
those uses allowed as of right would have the same allowance if they're along Mass Ave, Mount Auburn Street, Arrow street or Bow street. Councillor Marc McGovern 71:05
recent contribution... In fact, we did have a contribution made last year it's for the Regent, the Abbott building project right at the corner there, JFK and Brattle Street. So, it was recently approved project by the Planning Board, there was also reviewed by Historical Commission,
parking ratios. And I do think that that is a way for us to address this particular issue. While not doing it here. I know in Central Square; I know I haven't had a minute to look up how exactly it works. But there are different buckets that the parking fund goes into and it seems to me, you
business owners, universities, as well as neighborhood groups, and that each piece of it for represents a give and pull on either side. This particular provision exists in Central Square because I put it there. And in my last presentation on this, I look at that provision now as
January 30, 2020 lot. It has done something recently and may do something when Church Street gets lift off for another decade or so or and when you know the Asana group decides to stop kicking all their
being told in transit nodes about development. That we want to actually increase the density of these districts, more so than other districts. I think it's interesting to note that Harvard Square and Central Square though I put an asterisk next to my name for that one. This is the only place
these districts, more so than other districts. I think it's interesting to note that Harvard Square and Central Square though I put an asterisk next to my name for that one. This is the only place where we penalize development in this way. It is also the most difficult place to address parking
know, what have you. But if a project is built in Kendall Square, arguably the most lucrative part of our city. Such provision doesn't exist. If you build in Porter square, it doesn't exist. If you build in any part of the city but the overlay of Harvard Square in Central Square, this doesn't exist.
of our city. Such provision doesn't exist. If you build in Porter square, it doesn't exist. If you build in any part of the city but the overlay of Harvard Square in Central Square, this doesn't exist. So in my mind, and through discussions with these groups, we came to the conclusion that if
To Councillor... to Councillor Carlone's point, I fully agree with him. And I do believe we need to address this in Central Square, in Harvard Square, you know, for better or worse or whatever. It's been a business district for... it's there. The thing that would ask the council to look at
within the Overlay provided the structure that contains the use has a main entrance on Massachusetts Avenue, Mt. Auburn Street, Harvard Street Arrow Street or Bow Street. For all other lots, the Planning Board may allow by
entrance on Massachusetts Avenue, Mt. Auburn Street, Harvard Street Arrow Street or Bow Street. For all other lots, the Planning Board may allow by special permit the retail use of a lot or structure all or partially within the
recommended deleting Harvard Street and adding Arrow Street to
Harvard Street and adding Arrow Street to the list of streets where
Overlay provided the structure that contains the use has a main entrance on Massachusetts Avenue, Mt. Auburn Street, Arrow Street or Bow Street. For all other lots, the Planning Board may allow by special permit the retail use of a lot or
within the Overlay provided the structure that contains the use has a main entrance on Massachusetts Avenue, Mt. Auburn Street, Harvard Street Arrow Street or Bow Street. For all other lots, the Planning Board may allow by
entrance on Massachusetts Avenue, Mt. Auburn Street, Harvard Street Arrow Street or Bow Street. For all other lots, the Planning Board may allow by special permit the retail use of a lot or structure all or partially within the
