and you will have three minutes. Chris Schmidt followed by Alexandra Markiewicz. Chris Schmidt, 17 Laurel Street. Thank you all for considering moving ahead with this. I really appreciate the work that went into the Nexus study and the numbers that we're seeing. It seems
Thank you, Peter Williams fall by Larry Bluestone. Hi, I'm Peter Williams, 35 Homer Avenue. I guess I don't really have a whole lot to add from what you've just heard. I'm really glad to see the energy for this kind of work, and the council
Thank you. Larry Bluestone. Good evening, Larry Bluestone, 18 Centre Street. I just want to echo what everybody has said before me. I fully support the increase that is being proposed tonight. But I think we soon need
Thank you, Alan Sadun, followed by Carolyn Fuller. Hi, Alan Sadun, 17 Pleasant Place. I know the call for this meeting is narrow. And as Councillor McGovern said, this is not the end of the process of understanding the Nexus study. And I
Councillor Marc McGovern 45:40 Thank you, Carolyn Fuller, followed by William McAvinney. Carolyn Fuller, 12 Douglas Street, and I just want to reiterate what everybody else says which
Thank you, Carolyn Fuller, followed by William McAvinney. Carolyn Fuller, 12 Douglas Street, and I just want to reiterate what everybody else says which means I support you passing the petition tonight. But I hope the $20... and I hope you take up
Karl F. Seidman, Consultant 48:19 Jonathan Behrens, 115 Hampshire Streets. I'm going to echo the statements by everyone, pretty much everyone before me and say that this action is good, but we need much further
Councillor Marc McGovern 48:33 Thank you. Lee Ferris. Hi, Lee Ferris, 269 Norfolk Street. I am speaking for the Cambridge Residents Alliance. We
Thank you. Lee Ferris. Hi, Lee Ferris, 269 Norfolk Street. I am speaking for the Cambridge Residents Alliance. We strongly support this increase and $20 is certainly better than $19 and we would like it to go
Come on up, name, address. So, Henry Wortis, 106 Berkshire Street. And I'm speaking for myself and also Our Revolution. We're strong supporters of this as a first step. And the only thing I would add beyond applause
