Public Hearings PB# 356 -- 56 Creighton Street General Business
General Business PB# 352 -- 31 Church Street – Extension Election of Planning Board Chair
hearings, both on cannabis retail establishments. One is a new proposal for 966 Cambridge Street. Another is a continuation of the proposal at 541
The next meeting the following week, is on January Thorndike Street, an address the Board has heard a lot about over the years.
Then we can move to our public hearing for evening on Planning Board #56 -- 56 Creighton Street. Is someone here to speak on behalf of the proponent?
n. So this project -- oh, okay, yeah. Thank you. This project is at the very end of Creighton Street, right along the MBTA line, and the current structure, which is shown
And it's sort of in a residential district, where everything on Creighton Street is much more residential in scale, like the drawings here. But as you move along around
improve the neighborhood, improve this particular corner of Creighton Street, and is very much in keeping with the other buildings that have already been repurposed along the MBTA
further, but two units are now going to be accessed directly off of Creighton Street. We're going to keep the sidewalk. We're proposing to keep the sidewalk, as it's currently been
So in our proposal we're actually extending Creighton Street all the way through. And then even though we're only proposing three units, we're going to have six
adding additional units here, there would be potentially additional parking on Creighton Street. And so, we wanted to provide the required three
people would be spending their time in the nice weather. This is the existing façade on Creighton Street. This is the existing façade facing the tracks, and this is
big section of blank wall, which they really liked and wanted to preserve. This is our proposal for the Creighton Street. We brought what we think is a lot more life and
And so, this is our first floor, which now brings the scale of the first-floor Creighton Street much more into the residential scale. We'll be changing the windows and
deeper into the building. The view from Creighton Street coming -- if the track's back here, this is that slatted wall. These are the
THOMAS DALY: Yes. Yes, my name is Tom Daly. I live at 52 Creighton Street, and -- can you hear me? THE REPORTER: Yes. Could you please spell your
Meyer? MARILEE MEYER: Hi, Marilee Meyer, 10 Dana Street -- M-a-r-i-l-e-e Meyer, M-e-y-e-r. I actually wasn't
dark green with clapboards and windows. And, but that's no near -- is that just on the back side, on Walden Street? ROBERT LINN: It's on Regent, yep.
DOUG JEFFERS: My name is Doug Jeffers, J-e-f-f-e- r-s, and I live at 37 Creighton Street. I have several questions. One is the façade with the metal siding.
put in. And I trust that that's going to add additional public parking spaces to Creighton Street on the front elevation. And those were my questions.
that there was a mechanical on the roof. If you look at on Regent Street, the property besides the railroad, on the railroad track, there's an alley behind our house, which is
Okay, so the next item on our agenda is the extension to file the written decision for the 31 Church Street special permit. This is a retail cannabis
brings 14:14 Broadway 1:6 brought 13:22
