petition would place the affordable housing in one building, that would be 420,000 square feet, on the Broadway edge of the parcel. Anthony Markese, Design Principle at Pickard Chilton, explained that the idea is to create a wonderful
Councillor Carlone opened the floor to public comment. Bjorn Poonen, 303 3rd Street, questioned the removal of affordable home ownership units from the project. Hoping that the zoning proposal will go forward, while retaining the homeownership requirement
and also providing ownership opportunities to retailers. Jim Gray, 2 Michael Way, president of the Linden Park neighborhood association, was impressed with the process. He stated that the association is in favor and support this proposed zoning amendment.
the process. He stated that the association is in favor and support this proposed zoning amendment. Janice StClair, 3 Michael Way, spoke in support of the zoning amendment. Margaret Drury, 795 Massachusetts. Avenue stated that adoption of the proposed amendment would
direct disruptions of settled resident neighborhoods. She urged passage of the amendment. Pamela Van Dorn,13 Cornelius way, spoke in support of this petition. Luis Mejias, 18 Plymouth Street, spoke in support of the zoning petition.
Pamela Van Dorn,13 Cornelius way, spoke in support of this petition. Luis Mejias, 18 Plymouth Street, spoke in support of the zoning petition. Rosemary Booth, 303 Third Street, spoke in support of keeping affordable home ownership at the site.
Rosemary Booth, 303 Third Street, spoke in support of keeping affordable home ownership at the site. Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street, stated that the residents of East Cambridge, London Park Wellington Harrington, and the Port will bear the burden of this project. She stated that increased
Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street, stated that the residents of East Cambridge, London Park Wellington Harrington, and the Port will bear the burden of this project. She stated that increased commercial property will put more pressure on the neighborhood.
present Lee Ferris, 269 Norfolk Street, representing the Cambridge residence Alliance. She stated that the project will cause more gentrification and displacement. Eliminating affordable homeownership opportunities
original amount of affordable homeownership in this project. Matthew Connolly, 13 Cornelius Way, spoke in support of the project. Conrad Crawform, 119 Spring Street, stated that the project has a lot of benefits. He supported the
Matthew Connolly, 13 Cornelius Way, spoke in support of the project. Conrad Crawform, 119 Spring Street, stated that the project has a lot of benefits. He supported the proposal.
Iram Farooq, Assistant City Manager for Community Development, explained that the purpose of this project was keep the Eversource substation out of the Fulkerson Street site. Jeffrey Roberts, Director of Zoning and Development, explained that the Planning Board voted to
