General Business PB-241 -- 1991 & 2013 Massachusetts Avenue 129 PB-288 -- 40 Thorndike Street 160
PB-241 -- 1991 & 2013 Massachusetts Avenue 129 PB-288 -- 40 Thorndike Street 160 P R O C E E D I N G S
Next? This is a view looking for Binney Street back towards Kendall T station. The site is on the left-hand
Clearly the buildings immediately next to it towards East Cambridge are scaled down towards Binney Street. The box of the building is what is in the zoning
located at 510 Kendall Street. I am also a resident in Wellington-Harrington at 80 Tremont Street. Tonight is the night before school starts for my
speaking, Heather, you're on mute. Thanks. HEATHER HOFFMAN: Hi, Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street. I want to start by saying that I completely believe
As Peter mentioned earlier, it's really augmenting what is already there in the Kendall Square area, Central Square area and beyond in Cambridge. And I
CHARLES HIND: Hi, my name is Charles Hinds. I'm the current President of the East Cambridge Planning Team. I live at 207.5 Charles Street in East Cambridge. I'm here
the current President of the East Cambridge Planning Team. I live at 207.5 Charles Street in East Cambridge. I'm here on behalf of the Planning Team. We sent the letter in late,
during that that places were closing, and in response to many closures like Green Street Studios. The second part of it that I'd like to just
I'll go to Michael Monestime now. MICHAEL MONASTINE: Good evening. Michael Monestime, resident of 4 George Street in North Cambridge.
MICHAEL MONASTINE: Good evening. Michael Monestime, resident of 4 George Street in North Cambridge. I'm also the Executive Director of the Central Square
Monestime, resident of 4 George Street in North Cambridge. I'm also the Executive Director of the Central Square Business Important District, and the manager of the Central
I'm also the Executive Director of the Central Square Business Important District, and the manager of the Central Square Cultural District, the only cultural district in
project. My organization, the Central Square BID, is responsible for the newly-built amphitheater, Starlight
responsible for the newly-built amphitheater, Starlight Square, which was erected on Municipal Lot #5 in Central Square. While Starlight has centered many arts
JEFF MARTIN: Here we go. Okay, I a part of. Good evening. My name is Jeff Martin at 10 Holworthy Street. I'm President of Local 328 of the united
Design Update on a previously granted special permit case PB It's a development at 1991-2013 Massachusetts Avenue. CDD staff will begin by summarizing why this is
St. James' and you can see that it's located on the corner of Mass Ave and Grove Street -- there's the church, it's sort of at an angle on the corner.
carwash, and then the fire station on the other corner, and then along Grove Street and Orchard Street is residential. And on the right side, you can see the site plan
HEATHER HOFFMAN: Hello, Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street. During the previous lengthy discussion of my neighborhood, there was a lengthy online discussion of this
So you are not hearing my voice, you are hearing Young Kim's voice. Young Kim lives on Forest Street, I don't know what number. And I will just read you his e-
JANET MALENFANT: Hello. This is Janet Malenfant, and I'm joined by my husband, Gavin. I life at 15 Blake Street, and we are direct abutters to the area in
RUTH RILES: This is Ruth Riles, and I think because I'm President of Porter Square Neighbors Association, but I'm actually speaking for myself in truth,
yourself and give your name and address. Michael Brandon? MICHAEL BRANDON: Thank you, Jeff. I'm Michael Brandon, 27 Seven Pines Avenue. I'm part of the North
MICHAEL BRANDON: Thank you, Jeff. I'm Michael Brandon, 27 Seven Pines Avenue. I'm part of the North Cambridge Stabilization Committee, and our group has been
Brandon, 27 Seven Pines Avenue. I'm part of the North Cambridge Stabilization Committee, and our group has been monitoring this project for at least a decade.
However, also Sarah, who presented, made several references I thought to Grove Street. And I don't know -- there's Orchard Street is nearby, Beach Street and Blake
references I thought to Grove Street. And I don't know -- there's Orchard Street is nearby, Beach Street and Blake Street and Mass Ave I think, the Quadrant, is close to the
abutters -- and maybe you can find out, were the other residential abutters on Blake Street notified about this? But given that, I would hope that you would just say no,
school. It's on -- I'm on the north side of the school, just as Blake Street is on the north side. And I've lived there for 50 years, and there have
for special permit case PB #288, the redevelopment of 40 Thorndike Street. CDD staff will summarize why this is before us, and I believe Liza Paden is going to do that for
