CHARTER RIGHT premises numbered 810 Main Street; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works. No
III. APPLICATIONS AND PETITIONS projecting sign at the premises numbered 8 Holyoke Street, approval has been received from Inspectional Services, Department of Public Works, Community Development Department and
Toomey, Councillor Zondervan University Lutheran Church Congregational Council of 66 Winthrop Street, Cambridge in terms of the business of Blue Enterprises application for business.
VI. POLICY ORDER AND RESOLUTION LIST the request from Denise Cosby for a suitable dedication in the vicinity of Blackstone Street and River Street in honor of her late son, Justin Cosby
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
REPORT RECEIVED AND ACCEPTED IN COUNCIL OCTOBER 5, 2020 Central Square Library branch. Vice Mayor Mallon, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (Calendar Item #8)
Oct 26, 2020 19-151. Report on the feasibility of making Porter Square and Massachusetts Avenue between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus
19-151. Report on the feasibility of making Porter Square and Massachusetts Avenue between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Not allowed Franklin Street Park Not allowed
Not allowed Garden Street Glen/Roethlisberger Memorial Park Allowed Gibbons Park
Garden Street Glen/Roethlisberger Memorial Park Allowed Gibbons Park Glacken Field
Not allowed at tot lot Hastings Square Allowed
Allowed Larch Road Park Not allowed at tot lot
Not allowed at tot lot Lechmere Canal Park Not allowed at tot lot
Not allowed at tot lot Lopez Street Park Not allowed
Allowed Pacific Street Open Space Allowed
Lindstrom Field Linear Park Longfellow Park
Linear Park Longfellow Park Maple Avenue Park
Longfellow Park Maple Avenue Park Market Street Park
Maple Avenue Park Market Street Park McMath Park
Market Street Park McMath Park Paine Park
McMath Park Paine Park Pine Street Park
Paine Park Pine Street Park Rafferty Park
Pine Street Park Rafferty Park Raymond Park/Corcoran Field
Smoking Status Bishop Allen Plaza Brattle Square
Bishop Allen Plaza Brattle Square Carl Barron Plaza
Dolan Square Eliot Street Plaza Harvard Square
Eliot Street Plaza Harvard Square Lafayette Square
Lafayette Square Point Park Porter Square
Point Park Porter Square Quincy Square
Porter Square Quincy Square Sullivan Square
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 810 Main Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material specified by the
grant a permit to The Smoke Shop BBQ Restaurant for a projecting sign at the premises numbered 8 Holyoke Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Provided that, before erecting the above named projecting sign the petitioner shall file with the City
I am writing in response to your Monday October 19, 2020 City Council meeting where you exercised your Charter Right regarding Cambridge Brands outreach to the neighboring churches and 907 Main Street. At the hearing on October 19, you stated that you were specifically concerned about notifications to three
Pastors indicating support of our curb cut. Regarding 907 Main Street, Mr. Patrick Barrett has attended at least two community meetings in which we presented our building plan and I presented him a packet of information regarding the curb cut after you
As a longstanding member of the Cambridge Community we have worked to maintain a positive relationship with our neighbors and have met all the objectives outlined by the Cambridge Planning, Zoning and Central Square Advisory Boards throughout this process with overwhelming support of our project.
Roll Industries. Our candy manufacturing facility is located at 810 Main Street, Cambridge, we are currently the world manufacturer of the iconic brands:
• Central Square Business Association Central Square Advisory Board
Central Square Business Association Central Square Advisory Board Planning and Zoning Boards
Since last Monday’s meeting we have confirmed that our project has the full support of the churches, and I have written documentation of that. I also reached out to Patrick Barrett proprietor of 907 Main Street who is familiar with our project, because he attended informational meetings via the Central
and I have written documentation of that. I also reached out to Patrick Barrett proprietor of 907 Main Street who is familiar with our project, because he attended informational meetings via the Central Square business association.
I hope this latest information regarding neighborhood outreach and community involvement answers the council’s questions and we seek your approval to the modifications to the existing 810 Main Street curb cut and the addition of a curb cut on State Street.
the council’s questions and we seek your approval to the modifications to the existing 810 Main Street curb cut and the addition of a curb cut on State Street. Tootsie Roll and Cambridge Brands are committed to Cambridge and we look forward to producing
curb cut and the addition of a curb cut on State Street. Tootsie Roll and Cambridge Brands are committed to Cambridge and we look forward to producing candy at 810 Main Street for many years to come.
Tootsie Roll and Cambridge Brands are committed to Cambridge and we look forward to producing candy at 810 Main Street for many years to come. Thank you
Fire Department to stay current with issues facing the city of Cambridge Businesses (cid:132) Member of Central Square Business Association
Cambridge Businesses (cid:132) Member of Central Square Business Association (cid:132)Partner with Cambridge Savings Bank to promote CSB@Work
(cid:132) Member of Central Square Business Association (cid:132)Partner with Cambridge Savings Bank to promote CSB@Work (cid:132)Support Naco Taco Music Festival including Wild Rabbit Moto
to consider the request from Denise Cosby for a suitable dedication in the vicinity of Blackstone Street and River Street in honor of her late son, Justin Cosby; and be it further
we understand women’s role in our democratic processes. I encourage you all to also download Cambridge City Hall | 795 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139 ssiddiqui@cambridgema.gov│617-349-4321│tty: 617-492-0235│cambridgema.gov
Sumbul Siddiqui Cambridge City Hall | 795 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139 ssiddiqui@cambridgema.gov│617-349-4321│tty: 617-492-0235│cambridgema.gov
