Toomey, Councillor Zondervan (between Prospect Street to Portland Street) in the Port. POR 2020 #150
Next: 7/27/2020 5:30 PM premises numbered 56 Creighton Street; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works. No
III. APPLICATIONS AND PETITIONS in the amount of 3000.00 for awnings at the premises numbered 1876 Massachusetts Avenue. Approval has been received from Inspectional Services; Awnings have been removed.
Jun 29, 2020 20. A communication was received from Chitti Desai, 26 Inman Street, regarding support for Charter RESULT:
Jun 29, 2020 10. The Cambridge City Council goes on record condemning this action by the management at Whole Foods on River Street, and strongly encourages them to work collaboratively with their employees to
10. The Cambridge City Council goes on record condemning this action by the management at Whole Foods on River Street, and strongly encourages them to work collaboratively with their employees to resolve this issue
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
(Calendar Item #5) from 10/7/2019 Central Square Library branch. Vice Mayor Mallon, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (Calendar Item #8)
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Report on the potential for implementing sufficient traffic-calming solutions on Upton Street. Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (O-7) from 1/27/2020
Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Councillor McGovern (O-8) from 1/27/2020 Report on working with the residents in the vicinity of Eustis Street to implement traffic calming measures on this street.
Councillor Zondervan, Councillor Carlone (O-8) from 5/18/2020 Churchill Avenue” to “Matignon High School at Churchill Avenue”. Councillor Toomey (O-5) from 6/1/2020
neighborhoods, including the Port (Harvard and Windsor), the Coast (Putnam and Magazine), Brattle Street and North Cambridge (Rindge and Massachusetts Ave.). Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor Simmons, Councillor Nolan, Vice Mayor Mallon
That the City Manager be and hereby is requested to reinstitute the practice of dispatching crews of hand-sweepers from the Public Works Department to Harvard Street (between Prospect Street to Portland Street) in the Port on a regular basis to
dispatching crews of hand-sweepers from the Public Works Department to Harvard Street (between Prospect Street to Portland Street) in the Port on a regular basis to ensure that the City does a better job of keeping the streets and sidewalks in this
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 56 Creighton Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material specified by the
That the permit and bond granting authority to Bruegger’s Bagels, for the erection of awnings in front of the premises numbered 1876 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, be and the same herby is revoked.
Policy orders 1 and 9. Dear Cambridge City Council: My name is Julianne Borger, I am living at 99 Thorndike Street Cambridge. I am writing in support of police
Dear Cambridge City Council: My name is Julianne Borger, I am living at 99 Thorndike Street Cambridge. I am writing in support of police orders 1 and 9. I hope that you will vote for each of these in order to make the operations of city employees
Remote Public Comment - City Council Meeting 6/29/20 My name is Michael Roberson. I live at 94 Richdale Avenue and I'm a Library Assistant at the Cambridge Public Library as well as a board member of the Cambridge Public Library Staff Association. I am writing with concern about policy order
My name is Michael Roberson. I live at 94 Richdale Avenue and I'm a Library Assistant at the Cambridge Public Library as well as a board member of the Cambridge Public Library Staff Association. I am writing with concern about policy order #2.
WHEREAS: Were it not for the social distancing necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic, this June would have witnessed the creation of the 21st Foster Street Block Party, the annual neighborhood gathering that grew from the initial efforts of Dr. Jay Connor,
June would have witnessed the creation of the 21st Foster Street Block Party, the annual neighborhood gathering that grew from the initial efforts of Dr. Jay Connor, Lynne Herndon, Felice Kincannon, Kathleen Moore and Bonnie Shershaw to bring
For two decades this cherished event has been organized by two residents, Meade S. Fasciano of 86 Foster Street, and Anne Lowell of 88 Foster Street; and These two women have announced and have faithfully and thoughtfully organized the
sent home for wearing Black Lives Matter face masks; and Even in our own City, Whole Foods employees at the River Street location have been sent home from work for wearing Black Lives Matter face masks; and
ORDERED: That the Cambridge City Council goes on record showing support and solidarity with the employees of the River Street Whole Foods wearing Black Lives Matter masks;
That the Cambridge City Council goes on record showing support and solidarity with the employees of the River Street Whole Foods wearing Black Lives Matter masks; and further
and further The Cambridge City Council goes on record condemning this action by the management at Whole Foods on River Street, and strongly encourages them to work
The Cambridge City Council goes on record condemning this action by the management at Whole Foods on River Street, and strongly encourages them to work collaboratively with their employees to resolve this issue; and further
That the City Clerk be and hereby is requested to forward suitably engrossed copies of this resolution to the River Street Whole Foods Manager and Regional Manager on behalf of the entire City Council.
