Toomey, Councillor Zondervan premises numbered 56 Creighton Street; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works. No
appropriation and authorization to borrow $9,000,000 to provide funds for the construction of improvements of the Lexington Avenue and River Street Firehouses. ON OR AFTER JUNE 15, 2020 THE QUESTION COMES ON ADOPTION
appropriation and authorization to borrow $237,000,000 to provide funds for the design and construction of the Tobin Montessori and Vassal Lane Upper School. ON OR AFTER JUNE 15, 2020 THE QUESTION COMES ON ADOPTION
IV. APPLICATIONS AND PETITIONS permission for 60 temporary banners along Massachusetts Avenue from Hancock Street through Albany Street welcoming back business's into Central Square with Project Neighbor, Hello Again
permission for 60 temporary banners along Massachusetts Avenue from Hancock Street through Albany Street welcoming back business's into Central Square with Project Neighbor, Hello Again campaign from mid-June 2020 through September 2020.
Toomey, Councillor Zondervan Distancing on Cambridge Streets. COM 303 #2020
Jun 8, 2020 20. A communication was received from Luis Mejias, regarding a Petition to close some Cambridge Streets to promote a health re-opening.
Toomey, Councillor Zondervan the request from Peter Watchorn for an appropriate dedication at the corner of Watson Street and Salem Street in honor of the late Greg Miller; and be it further
the request from Peter Watchorn for an appropriate dedication at the corner of Watson Street and Salem Street in honor of the late Greg Miller; and be it further POR 2020 #128
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
(Calendar Item #5) from 10/7/2019 Central Square Library branch. Vice Mayor Mallon, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (Calendar Item #8)
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Report on the potential for implementing sufficient traffic-calming solutions on Upton Street. Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (O-7) from 1/27/2020
Councillor Simmons, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Carlone (O-1) from Report on working with the residents in the vicinity of Eustis Street to implement traffic calming measures on this street.
The mayor opened the floor to public comments at 5:35 PM. Peter Squires, 57 Fairmont Street, stated his support for the Affordable Housing Overlay District. He said that he has heard concern about property values and the value that his property has is being part of a
he is disappointed with those that do not support the Affordable Housing Overlay District. Anthony Martin, 3 Channing Circle, stated that he is not in favor of the Affordable Housing Overlay District. He urged the City Council to bring the issue of the Affordable Housing Overlay District back to
Packet Pg. 29 Abra Berkowitz, 16 Walden Street, spoke on Policy Order #9. She said that cars are speeding in the area and she would love for this Policy Order to be expanded to Walden Street. She stated her support for
Abra Berkowitz, 16 Walden Street, spoke on Policy Order #9. She said that cars are speeding in the area and she would love for this Policy Order to be expanded to Walden Street. She stated her support for Policy Order #16. Regarding Policy Order #5, she said that this is another example of the stoking of fear
by one resident who broke into the building. Suzanne Blier, 5 Fuller Place, read from a prepared written statement. She stated that she supports the City finding a means that Carnival will not be cancelled in future years. She stated her support for
Broadband. She stated her opposition to the proposed Affordable Housing Overlay District Carol O’Hare, 172 Magazine Street, spoke on City Manager Agenda Item #7. She read from a prepared written statement in opposition to the proposed Affordable Housing Overlay District. She noted her
concerns as they relate to the Cannabis Business Permitting. Patty Nolan, 184 Huron Avenue, spoke on City Manager Agenda Item #7. She stated her opposition to the proposed Affordable Housing Overlay District.
the proposed Affordable Housing Overlay District. Elizabeth Gilmore, 47 Reservoir Street, read from prepared written statement regarding City Manager Agenda Item #7 in opposition to the proposed Affordable Housing Overlay District.
opposition to the proposed Affordable Housing Overlay District. Karen Weller, 12 Humboldt Street, read from a prepared written statement regarding City Manager Agenda Item #7 in opposition to the proposed Affordable Housing Overlay District.
Agenda Item #7 in opposition to the proposed Affordable Housing Overlay District. Katiti Kironde, 11A Meacham Road, stated her opposition to the proposed Affordable Housing Overlay District.
Permitting Ordinance. George Bachrach, 129 South Street, spoke in support of Calendar Item #8. He stated that the owners of this site have done everything that has been asked of them. He urged City Council support.
The floor was opened for public comment. Marie Elena Saccoccio, 55 Otis Street, spoke in opposition to the disposition of the municipal garage. CITY OF CAMBRIDGE
Packet Pg. 30 Representative Mike Connolly, 4 Ashburton Place, spoke in opposition to the disposition of city-owned parking.
Board’s strong recommendation. School Committee Member Manikka Bowman spoke in favor of the disposition. Betty Lee Saccoccio, 55 Otis Street, spoke in opposition to the release of 420 parking spaces of the First
School Committee Member Manikka Bowman spoke in favor of the disposition. Betty Lee Saccoccio, 55 Otis Street, spoke in opposition to the release of 420 parking spaces of the First Street Garage.
time to move on. Mark Rogers, 390 Cambridge Street, spoke in support of the disposition. Fran Cronin, 1 Kimball Lane, expressed her strong support for the disposition of parking spaces at the
Mark Rogers, 390 Cambridge Street, spoke in support of the disposition. Fran Cronin, 1 Kimball Lane, expressed her strong support for the disposition of parking spaces at the First Street Garage.
First Street Garage. George Sommer, 29 Otis Street, spoke in support of the disposition of parking spaces at the First Street Garage.
Garage. Stephen Gardiner, Otis Street, 29 stated his support of the disposition of parking spaces at the First Street Garage.
Garage. Ladan Khamsi, 29 Otis Street, spoke in support of the disposition of parking spaces at the First Street Garage.
Garage. Lata Ramanathan, 17 Otis Street, spoke in support of the disposition of parking spaces at the First Street Garage.
Garage. Phil Rinehart, 17 Otis Street, spoke in support of the disposition of parking spaces at the First Street Garage.
Garage. Ellen Huang, 30 Spring Street, spoke in support of the disposition of parking spaces at the First Street Garage.
Garage. Tesley Utley, 2050 Massachusetts Avenue, stated that the City Council should act immediately and come together as a community and not be so divided.
Packet Pg. 31 Kathy Watkins, 90 Fawcett Street, stated that she takes the residents’ fear of asbestos seriously. She said that leasing the garage for thirty years ties up the garage.
that leasing the garage for thirty years ties up the garage. Loren Crowe, 8 Museum Way, spoke about asbestos present at the Courthouse and resident safety. Richard Vendetti, 24 Winter Street, stated his support of the disposition of the parking spaces at the First
Loren Crowe, 8 Museum Way, spoke about asbestos present at the Courthouse and resident safety. Richard Vendetti, 24 Winter Street, stated his support of the disposition of the parking spaces at the First Street Garage.
Sonja Cantu, 115 Second Street, stated her support for this project. Charles Marquardt, 10 Rogers Street, spoke in in support of the disposition of parking spaces at the First Street Garage.
Street Garage. Christopher Kosinski, 77 Spring Street, spoke in support of the disposition of parking spaces at the First Street Garage.
Street Garage. Susan Frietas, 138 Thorndike Street, spoke in support of the disposition of parking spaces at the First Street Garage.
Street Garage. Jason Alves, Executive Director, East Cambridge Business Association, spoke in support for this project. Silvia Tower, 150 Cambridge Street, stated her support for this development.
Jason Alves, Executive Director, East Cambridge Business Association, spoke in support for this project. Silvia Tower, 150 Cambridge Street, stated her support for this development. Ana Sanchez, 58 Seventh Street, stated that the residents need the community center and affordable units
for low income families. Mary Ellen Doran, 48 Spring Street, stated her support on the disposition of parking. Ali Malihi, 17 Otis Street, spoke in support of the disposition of parking spaces at the First Street Garage.
Mary Ellen Doran, 48 Spring Street, stated her support on the disposition of parking. Ali Malihi, 17 Otis Street, spoke in support of the disposition of parking spaces at the First Street Garage. Donald Sheehan, 256 Freeport Street, Dorchester, spoke in support of the disposition.
Donald Sheehan, 256 Freeport Street, Dorchester, spoke in support of the disposition. Ayan Barre, 65B Cedar Street, stated that she is in support of this project. Walter McDonald, 172 Magazine Street, spoke in opposition to the disposition of the parking spaces at
Ayan Barre, 65B Cedar Street, stated that she is in support of this project. Walter McDonald, 172 Magazine Street, spoke in opposition to the disposition of the parking spaces at the First Street Garage.
the First Street Garage. Tian Ong, 64 Hurley Street, spoke in support of the disposition. Ilan Levy, 148 Spring Street, said that Leggat McCall spent more than $1 million dollars in marketing and
Tian Ong, 64 Hurley Street, spoke in support of the disposition. Ilan Levy, 148 Spring Street, said that Leggat McCall spent more than $1 million dollars in marketing and advertising, public relations, and attorney fees to reinforce their strength and power. He said that the
City Council must be morally correct. Joe Aiello, 207 Charles Street, spoke in support of the disposition of parking spaces at the First Street Garage.
Garage. Nella LaRosa-Waters, 54 Crescent Street, stated her opposition to this disposition. CITY OF CAMBRIDGE
Packet Pg. 32 Carolyn Magid, 71 Reed Street, spoke in opposition to the leasing of parking spaces to Leggat McCall. Sean McFarland, 52 Pearl Street, spoke in opposition to this disposition.
Carolyn Magid, 71 Reed Street, spoke in opposition to the leasing of parking spaces to Leggat McCall. Sean McFarland, 52 Pearl Street, spoke in opposition to this disposition. Henry Wortis, 106 Berkshire Street, stated his opposition to the disposition.
Sean McFarland, 52 Pearl Street, spoke in opposition to this disposition. Henry Wortis, 106 Berkshire Street, stated his opposition to the disposition. Peter Crawley, 88 Thorndike Street, stated that the City Council should postpone the vote until the City
Henry Wortis, 106 Berkshire Street, stated his opposition to the disposition. Peter Crawley, 88 Thorndike Street, stated that the City Council should postpone the vote until the City fully investigates the environmental condition of the building and forces the State to make the building
Peter Crawley, 88 Thorndike Street, stated that the City Council should postpone the vote until the City fully investigates the environmental condition of the building and forces the State to make the building safe.
safe. John Whisnant, 61 Otis Street, spoke in opposition to this project. Rosemary Booth, 303 Third Street, stated her opposition to the disposition.
Rosemary Booth, 303 Third Street, stated her opposition to the disposition. Judy Somberg, 48 Antrim Street, stated that the City should take the time to do the project right, not just go with a commercial developer.
go with a commercial developer. Dan Eisner, 6 Bristol Street, spoke in support of the disposition of parking spaces at the First Street Garage.
votes on the disposition. Sheli Wortis, 106 Berkshire Street, spoke in opposition to the disposition of the parking spaces at the First Street Garage.
Street Garage. Angell Munoz, 218 Otis Street, spoke in favor of the disposition. Kate Skubecz, 158 Thorndike Street, urged the City Council to vote no on this disposition.
Angell Munoz, 218 Otis Street, spoke in favor of the disposition. Kate Skubecz, 158 Thorndike Street, urged the City Council to vote no on this disposition. Louise Parker, 1 Warwick Park, spoke in opposition to this disposition.
Kate Skubecz, 158 Thorndike Street, urged the City Council to vote no on this disposition. Louise Parker, 1 Warwick Park, spoke in opposition to this disposition. Patty Nolan, 184 Huron Avenue, spoke in opposition to the disposition of parking spaces at the First
Louise Parker, 1 Warwick Park, spoke in opposition to this disposition. Patty Nolan, 184 Huron Avenue, spoke in opposition to the disposition of parking spaces at the First Street Garage.
Street Garage. Josh Drayton, 36A Rice Street, urged the City Council to vote in support of this disposition. David Borrus, 9 Hollis Street, stated his support for this disposition.
Josh Drayton, 36A Rice Street, urged the City Council to vote in support of this disposition. David Borrus, 9 Hollis Street, stated his support for this disposition. Charles Hinds, 207 Charles Street, read excerpts from a statement written by Fred Cellucci. He spoke in
David Borrus, 9 Hollis Street, stated his support for this disposition. Charles Hinds, 207 Charles Street, read excerpts from a statement written by Fred Cellucci. He spoke in opposition to the disposition of the parking spaces at the First Street Garage.
opposition to the disposition of the parking spaces at the First Street Garage. Nadeem Mazen, 171 Auburn Street, spoke in opposition to the disposition of the parking spaces at the First Street Garage.
hazard, the City should sue and protect the community. Nancy Ryan, 4 Ashburton Place, spoke in opposition to the disposition. Kevin Donaher, 225 Chestnut Street, spoke in opposition to the disposition.
Nancy Ryan, 4 Ashburton Place, spoke in opposition to the disposition. Kevin Donaher, 225 Chestnut Street, spoke in opposition to the disposition. CITY OF CAMBRIDGE
Packet Pg. 33 Benjamin Simon, 67 Bishop Allen Drive, asked the City Council to vote in opposition to this disposition. Matthew Schreiner, 26 Grozier Road, spoke in opposition to the disposition.
Benjamin Simon, 67 Bishop Allen Drive, asked the City Council to vote in opposition to this disposition. Matthew Schreiner, 26 Grozier Road, spoke in opposition to the disposition. Christopher Correia, 19 Plymouth Street, stated his support for the disposition.
Matthew Schreiner, 26 Grozier Road, spoke in opposition to the disposition. Christopher Correia, 19 Plymouth Street, stated his support for the disposition. Stuart McMuldroch, 1 Warwick Park, read an excerpt from Fred Salvucci. He urged the City Council to
Christopher Correia, 19 Plymouth Street, stated his support for the disposition. Stuart McMuldroch, 1 Warwick Park, read an excerpt from Fred Salvucci. He urged the City Council to reject the proposed transfer.
reject the proposed transfer. Barbara Taggart, 2 Cottage Court, urged the City Council to oppose the disposition. Beth Huang, 122 Berkshire Street, stated her opposition to this disposition.
Barbara Taggart, 2 Cottage Court, urged the City Council to oppose the disposition. Beth Huang, 122 Berkshire Street, stated her opposition to this disposition. Ann Dix, 34 Maple Avenue, urged the City Council to oppose the disposition.
Beth Huang, 122 Berkshire Street, stated her opposition to this disposition. Ann Dix, 34 Maple Avenue, urged the City Council to oppose the disposition. Lee Farris, 269 Norfolk Street, asked the City Council to oppose the disposition.
Ann Dix, 34 Maple Avenue, urged the City Council to oppose the disposition. Lee Farris, 269 Norfolk Street, asked the City Council to oppose the disposition. Carol O’Hare, 172 Magazine Street, spoke in opposition to the disposition.
Lee Farris, 269 Norfolk Street, asked the City Council to oppose the disposition. Carol O’Hare, 172 Magazine Street, spoke in opposition to the disposition. Gerald Bergman, 82 Elm Street, stated that he is frustrated that there is no alternate plan. He suggested
Carol O’Hare, 172 Magazine Street, spoke in opposition to the disposition. Gerald Bergman, 82 Elm Street, stated that he is frustrated that there is no alternate plan. He suggested leasing of the land and moving forward.
leasing of the land and moving forward. Branka Whisnant, 61 Otis Street, stated her opposition to the disposition. Glenna Wyman, 25 Eighth Street, spoke in opposition to the disposition.
removing asbestos from the building and bill DCAM later. John Pitkin, 18 Fayette Street, stated his opposition to the disposition. Anderson Lima, 566 Windsor Street, stated his support for the disposition.
John Pitkin, 18 Fayette Street, stated his opposition to the disposition. Anderson Lima, 566 Windsor Street, stated his support for the disposition. Daniel Curtis, 89 Lincoln Street, urged the City Council to oppose the disposition.
Anderson Lima, 566 Windsor Street, stated his support for the disposition. Daniel Curtis, 89 Lincoln Street, urged the City Council to oppose the disposition. Hasson Rashid, 820 Massachusetts Avenue, said that the Commonwealth is in violation of federal
Daniel Curtis, 89 Lincoln Street, urged the City Council to oppose the disposition. Hasson Rashid, 820 Massachusetts Avenue, said that the Commonwealth is in violation of federal mandates. He said that it comes down to securing homeless housing.
mandates. He said that it comes down to securing homeless housing. William Dines, 69 Otis Street, stated his opposition to the disposition. James Williamson, 1000 Jackson Place, stated his opposition to the disposition.
William Dines, 69 Otis Street, stated his opposition to the disposition. James Williamson, 1000 Jackson Place, stated his opposition to the disposition. Robert Bench, 153 Fifth Street, spoke in support of the disposition.
Chris Haines spoke in support of the disposition. William Grace spoke in support of the disposition. Marc Truant, 32 Warren Street, talked about the importance of allowing everyone to have a voice. He
William Grace spoke in support of the disposition. Marc Truant, 32 Warren Street, talked about the importance of allowing everyone to have a voice. He said that it could be beneficial to suspend a decision.
Bethany Stephens spoke in opposition to the disposition. Abra Berkowitz, 16 Walden Street, stated her opposition to the disposition. Allan Boyer spoke in favor of the disposition.
Beth Simon spoke in opposition to the disposition. Suzanne Blier, 5 Fuller Place, spoke in opposition to the disposition. Alan Green, 82 Fifth Street, urged the City Council to vote no to the disposition.
Mymor Perez, 1137 Mass. Avenue, stated that he is in support of this disposition. Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street, spoke in opposition to the disposition. Charles Franklin spoke in opposition to the disposition.
Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street, spoke in opposition to the disposition. Charles Franklin spoke in opposition to the disposition. Phyllis Bretholtz, 65 Antrim Street, stated her opposition to the disposition.
Charles Franklin spoke in opposition to the disposition. Phyllis Bretholtz, 65 Antrim Street, stated her opposition to the disposition. Peter Valentine, Brookline Street, stated that that the City Council should learn how to keep itself healthy
Phyllis Bretholtz, 65 Antrim Street, stated her opposition to the disposition. Peter Valentine, Brookline Street, stated that that the City Council should learn how to keep itself healthy and return them back to themselves by allowing the source of all creation to guide you.
and return them back to themselves by allowing the source of all creation to guide you. Margaret Farnsworth, Fayerweather Street, spoke in opposition to the disposition. Jeff Petrucelli, Cambridge Street, stated that he has concerns about this disposition. He said that the
Margaret Farnsworth, Fayerweather Street, spoke in opposition to the disposition. Jeff Petrucelli, Cambridge Street, stated that he has concerns about this disposition. He said that the asbestos problem should be dealt with immediately.
asbestos problem should be dealt with immediately. Roberta Goto, 13 Lopez Avenue, said that her concern is the health and safety of her family and neighbors.
neighbors. Kit Haines, 6 Florence Street, stated her concerns about the process. Karen Chen, 1 Earhart Street, spoke in opposition to the disposition.
Kit Haines, 6 Florence Street, stated her concerns about the process. Karen Chen, 1 Earhart Street, spoke in opposition to the disposition. Public Comment concluded at 10:42 p.m.
The regular meeting reconvened at 11:35 PM. Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street, spoke on City Manager Agenda Item #7. She said that the Affordable Housing Overlay is not ready for prime time. With respect to New Street proposal and the
Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street, spoke on City Manager Agenda Item #7. She said that the Affordable Housing Overlay is not ready for prime time. With respect to New Street proposal and the Courthouse, she said that Eversource can solve its problems by creating 22 affordable units around the
substation and the City Council will fall all over itself to pass this substation. Hasson Rashid, 820 Massachusetts Avenue, spoke on City Manager Agenda Item #7. She stated that no one includes homeless housing when they should be the first in line for consideration. He asked why the
are not given first consideration for housing. Ken Reeves, Harvard Street, spoke on Policy Order #15. He said that cancellation of the Cambridge Carnival was an extraordinary event. He said that no Caribbean Carnival in the world has ever been
people who have been at the end of the line can get closer to the front. James Williamson, 1000 Jackson Place, spoke on Policy Order #15. He said that if there was evidence of a threat, why couldn’t something be done to address the threat. He said that he thinks that a better job
conversation are the people who live in affordable housing units. Mahmood Abu-Rubieh, 170 Brookline Street, spoke on Calendar Item #8. He stated that he supports the New Street project that will bring 22 affordable housing units to Cambridge.
Mahmood Abu-Rubieh, 170 Brookline Street, spoke on Calendar Item #8. He stated that he supports the New Street project that will bring 22 affordable housing units to Cambridge. CITY OF CAMBRIDGE
Yea Trudy Goodman, Cambridge Street, spoke on City Manager Agenda Item #7. She said that affordable units should not be for people who are earning $120,000.
this time. Tim Shaw, 147 Mount Auburn Street, read from a prepared written statement in opposition to the Affordable Housing Overlay District proposal currently before the City Council.
Affordable Housing Overlay District proposal currently before the City Council. James Butler, 425 Concord Avenue, spoke on Calendar Item #8. He spoke in opposition to the New Street Overlay District.
Street Overlay District. Lisa Camacho, 24 Corporal Burns Road, spoke on Calendar Item #8. She stated her opposition to the New Street Overlay District.
Lisa Camacho, 24 Corporal Burns Road, spoke on Calendar Item #8. She stated her opposition to the New Street Overlay District. Tina Alu, 113 ½ Pleasant Street, Director of CEOC, spoke in support of Policy Order #1. Regarding City
New Street Overlay District. Tina Alu, 113 ½ Pleasant Street, Director of CEOC, spoke in support of Policy Order #1. Regarding City Manager Agenda Item #7, she spoke in support of an Affordable Housing Overlay District.
Elaine DeRosa, Cambridge, stated her support for an Affordable Housing Overlay District. Nicola Williams, 8 Brewer Street, spoke in support of Policy Order #15. She said that the Carnival Committee would like to have another scaled-back event this month. She said that she is upset that the
Committee would like to have another scaled-back event this month. She said that she is upset that the Cambridge Carnival was cancelled for the first time ever. Peggy Barnes Leonard, 115 Fayerweather Street, spoke on Calendar Item #3. She said that the self-
Cambridge Carnival was cancelled for the first time ever. Peggy Barnes Leonard, 115 Fayerweather Street, spoke on Calendar Item #3. She said that the self- storage unit is spot zoning. She said that this is an opportunity to do something residential. She said that
this is another project that is outsized for the land. She spoke in support of Policy Order #2. Marc Levy, 132 Oxford Street, spoke on Calendar Item #1. He stated that he supports the order asking the City to drop all charges against the Upper West bar and its owners and reconsider its package store
Marc Levy, 132 Oxford Street, spoke on Calendar Item #1. He stated that he supports the order asking the City to drop all charges against the Upper West bar and its owners and reconsider its package store application and issue a public policy.
toward identifying an alternate, viable location for a new substation other than the proposed site on Fulkerson Street. CRT 2019 #59
progress toward identifying an alternate, viable location for a new substation other than the proposed site on Fulkerson Street CRT 2019 #64
Ordinance Committee, for a public hearing held on June 26, 2019 to discuss a petition received from Self Storage Group, LLC to amend the Zoning Ordinance by creating a New Street Overlay District. ON OR AFTER AUGUST 18, 2019 THE QUESTION COMES ON ORDINATION
COUNCIL along Massachusetts Avenue, from Memorial Drive to Sidney Street announcing Polaroid Project on October 9, 2019 thru April 1, 2020.
Packet Pg. 48 16. A communication was received from Dennis Ferrick, Hurley Street, re: First Street Garage. COM 525 #2019
Packet Pg. 51 40. A communication was received from Joyce Gerber, Fairfield Street, re: Recreational Dispensary COM 550 #2019
Packet Pg. 53 56. A communication was received from Suzanne Blier, Fuller Place, re: AHO - going forward. COM 565 #2019
Packet Pg. 54 64. A communication was received from John Moukad, 34 Royal Avenue, re: AHO (support). COM 573 #2019
Packet Pg. 56 80. A communication was received from Joe Hardwick, 170 Gore Street, re: Approve Courthouse COM 591 #2019
Packet Pg. 58 97. A communication was received from Joanne Musto Pacheco, 61 Gore Street, re: Approve Courthouse Courthouse Parking Lease.
Packet Pg. 59 102. A communication was received from Mary Ellen Doran, 48 Spring Street, regarding Support for Courthouse and Garage Lease.
Packet Pg. 61 117. A communication was received from Bonny Saintelot, 364 Rindge Avenue, regarding support of COM 628 #2019
Packet Pg. 62 124. A communication was received from Robert Camacho, 24 Corporal Burns Road, regarding COM 637 #2019
Packet Pg. 63 131. A communication was received from Carolyn Magid, 71 Reed Street, regarding voting against the COM 642 #2019
Packet Pg. 69 177. A communication was received from Louise Parker, 1 Warwick Park, regarding vote no on leasing of parking spaces to Leggat McCall.
Packet Pg. 72 200. A communication was received from Tim Shaw, 147 Mount Auburn Street, regarding AHO. COM 709 #2019
ORDER ADOPTED BY AFFIRMATIVE VOTE OF NINE MEMBERS Department and any other relevant City departments to review speeds on Raymond Street, sign Raymond Street and adjacent streets at 20 MPH as soon as possible and provide a schedule of 20
Department and any other relevant City departments to review speeds on Raymond Street, sign Raymond Street and adjacent streets at 20 MPH as soon as possible and provide a schedule of 20 MPH sign installations citywide.
ORDER ADOPTED BY AFFIRMATIVE VOTE OF NINE MEMBERS additional safety measures at the intersection of Fayette and Cambridge Streets to decrease conflict between pedestrians and vehicles as they are turning.
REFERRED TO THE CALENDAR ITEM #7 UNDER UNFINISHED BUSINESS from Vice Mayor Devereux, regarding proposed amendments to the New Street Overlay District zoning petition.
CRT 2019 #57 FROM SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Councillor Mallon, Mayor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
MBTA/BCIL settlement agreement through the delay in completion of the elevator replacement and concurrent hazardous condition of the stairwells related to Central Square.
Councillor Mallon, Vice Mayor Devereux, Councillor Siddiqui (O-7) from the pavement conditions would be necessary and feasible to make Massachusetts Avenue a quick-build Complete Street between Sidney Street and Putnam Avenue.
the pavement conditions would be necessary and feasible to make Massachusetts Avenue a quick-build Complete Street between Sidney Street and Putnam Avenue. Vice Mayor Devereux, Mayor McGovern, Councillor Siddiqui, Councillor
Councillor Mallon, Councillor Kelley, Vice Mayor Devereux (O-4) from with the Fresh Pond mall owner the potential for creating a formal street connection between Terminal Road and New Street.
with the Fresh Pond mall owner the potential for creating a formal street connection between Terminal Road and New Street. Vice Mayor Devereux, Councillor Siddiqui, Councillor Carlone (O-5) from
Zondervan (O-5) from 6/24/2019 service along Concord Avenue. Mayor McGovern, Councillor Mallon (O-7) from 6/24/2019
Councillor Carlone (O-27) from 7/30/2019 activated HAWK signal at the intersection of Garfield Street and Massachusetts Avenue.
Requirements (a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, or (b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street
(a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, or (b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound.
(b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities are proposed to be Permanent Separated Bicycle
detailing why the extension was necessary by no later than May 1, 2025. D. By no later than May 1, 2022, the City Manager shall complete the installation of continuous Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between
D. By no later than May 1, 2022, the City Manager shall complete the installation of continuous Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting:
Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street;
Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street.
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along Massachusetts Avenue other than (a),
(d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along Massachusetts Avenue other than (a), (b), (c) and (d) are proposed to be Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes, the requirements of
Facilities has commenced prior to the deadline established by this Subsection D, provided, however, that if Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes are to be installed along Massachusetts Avenue from Sydney Street to Inman Street, the requirements of this Subsection D shall be
however, that if Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes are to be installed along Massachusetts Avenue from Sydney Street to Inman Street, the requirements of this Subsection D shall be satisfied so long as the design of such Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes has commenced
block analysis determining the impacts of installing Quick-Build Separated Bicycle Lanes on: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street.
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If, after a review of the analysis, the City Manager determines that Quick-Build Separated
Lane of Adequate Directionality along (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Packet Pg. 114 (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street,
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street, within one year of the City Manager’s submission to the City Council of an analysis of the
Directionality on such blocks within three years of the submission of the impacts analysis. F. Any Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along segment (a) of Subsection E, Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street, must also be separated from Public
F. Any Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along segment (a) of Subsection E, Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street, must also be separated from Public Transportation for the full stretch of that segment.
Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along: (a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, (b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street,
(a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, (b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street, (c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and
(b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street, (c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and (d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street
(c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and (d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound,
(d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound, provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord
from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound, provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord Avenue to the segment of Concord Avenue contiguous to Follen Street shall be improved to
provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord Avenue to the segment of Concord Avenue contiguous to Follen Street shall be improved to meet the needs of users of all ages and abilities.
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 56 Creighton Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material specified by the
Please find attached an order requesting the appropriation and authorization to borrow $9,000,000 to provide funds for the construction of improvements of the Lexington Avenue and River Street Firehouses. These improvements include but are not limited to interior and building system upgrades, HVAC
That $9,000,000 is appropriated, for the purpose of financing the construction of building improvements to the Lexington Avenue and River Street Firehouses; and to meet this appropriation the Treasurer with the approval of the City Manager is
Please find attached an order requesting the appropriation and authorization to borrow $237,000,000 to provide funds for the design and construction of the Tobin Montessori and Vassal Lane Upper School. Construction includes the commencement of demolition and remediation of the existing building and
That $237,000,000 is appropriated, for the purpose of financing the design and construction of the Tobin Montessori and Vassal Lane Upper School; and to meet this appropriation the Treasurer with the approval of the City Manager is authorized to
maintaining banners, the Commissioner of Public Works be and hereby is authorized to grant a permit to Central Square Business Improvement District Provided that, before erecting the above named 60 temporary banners the petitioner
our economy. It will be money well spent. BY JOHN PITKIN, resident at 18 Fayette Street, Cambridge Email contact: john_pitkin@earthlink.net
current scope, so that it creates a network that reaches all neighborhoods in the city; that the Council and Manager advocate to DCR for a 24/7 shutdown of two lanes on Memorial Drive for those who walk or bike for essential travel; and that the Cycling Safety Ordinance be passed
Thanks for your support. Petition to Enable Social Distancing on Cambridge Streets This petition was developed by a coalition of Cambridge residents, local business workers
Petition to Enable Social Distancing on Cambridge Streets This petition was developed by a coalition of Cambridge residents, local business workers and owners, and members of Cambridge Bike Safety.
sustainable living.. Larchwood Drive (and "The Larches" in particular) serves even in normal times as a thoroughfare for walkers and bikers
Douglas Brown Street
Comment Jennifer Bruni 26 Elm Street Hilary Shea
Jennifer Bruni 26 Elm Street Hilary Shea as expanding initiatives like Neighborhood Slow Streets, it will
If this change were to happen, I wouldn't have to dart into Memorial Drive to avoid other pedestrians on the sidewalk. Thouis R
house with a tiny yard that is just inches from the street. If Chestnut Street became car traffic free we could play without the anxiety and bike more freely all together - Chestnut is part
Chestnut Street became car traffic free we could play without the anxiety and bike more freely all together - Chestnut is part of the bike network and this feels like an amazing opportunity
#3 Maura Baldiga 78 5th Street #1 02141 Alex Van
Maura Baldiga 78 5th Street #1 02141 Alex Van Praagh
ave Susan Doubler 26 Eaton Street 01890 Tina Lieu
I will feel much safer walking and biking on Mass Ave and Memorial Drive. With so much less traffic these days, and more people out
#716 Michelle Lakov 289 Elm Street 02139 Blake Newman P.O. Box 390122 02139 we need more open space to be able to safely recreate!
Michelle Lakov 289 Elm Street 02139 Blake Newman P.O. Box 390122 02139 we need more open space to be able to safely recreate! Lynn R.
northern parts of Boston. The lack of protected bike lanes in Harvard Str, Mass Ave. and parts of Broadway and Cambridge Str. makes me feel unsafe every time I commute.
Harvard Str, Mass Ave. and parts of Broadway and Cambridge Str. makes me feel unsafe every time I commute. I generally opt to cycle outside of peak hours to avoid traffic,
Kimberly bolick street, Arlington Street
neighborhood streets, it will be impossible for me to get to work on Memorial Drive with proper social distance, and between my child's daycare two miles upriver on Memorial
work on Memorial Drive with proper social distance, and between my child's daycare two miles upriver on Memorial Drive.
to implement these changes as there are less traffic (Fresh Pond Pkwy, Concord Ave, Alewife Brook Pkwy have all been paved recently, so change is possible!).
extremely unsafe for cyclists. The proposal to devote 2 lanes of Memorial Drive to bikers & pedestrians will not only facilitate social distancing, but
the street as a way to maintain social distancing. I regularly end up running in the road on Memorial Drive to maintain social distancing. Fortunately the lack of cars makes
Michelle Brown Street
I own Cleenland, a low-waste personal and home care shop on Norfolk Street, and we would benefit greatly from more space on Cambridge streets. Revenue is down significantly
on Norfolk Street, and we would benefit greatly from more space on Cambridge streets. Revenue is down significantly as people don't feel safe crossing town to get to us. I shudder
dramatically reduced now, so much of the motor travel lane space on Memorial Drive is not being used. The current conditions are a public health risk and should be addressed
conditions are a public health risk and should be addressed by opening up some of the lanes on Memorial Drive to walkers, joggers, and bicyclists. Similar road changes should
public and should be explored. This would make my bicycle travel to MIT, Central Square, and into Boston via the Longfellow Bridge safer.
This would make my bicycle travel to MIT, Central Square, and into Boston via the Longfellow Bridge safer. When there are bike lanes and dedicated bus lanes I will
Ave Judy Somberg 48 Antrim Street this would allow the bike commuting community to keep
toward a better future. Why has Memorial Drive not been closed? City Council voted for it. DCR has closed other roads. They haven't even closed
Comment Jenna S Glat 63 Dana Street 02138 Debbie New
Jenna S Glat 63 Dana Street 02138 Debbie New Terrace
Pamela Doug Brown Street
Allow more room to walk on foot. For example, it is difficult to maintain a safe distance on Cambridge Street at present. Amy A Flax
Mai Nguyen Our headquarter is in Cambridge Port. This petition would allow us to safely walk to Central Square restaurants and
Our headquarter is in Cambridge Port. This petition would allow us to safely walk to Central Square restaurants and other business.
Ellen Mayer Roberts Road Getting outdoors these days is VITAL for all of us and not all
Mark Spatz Kevin Johnson 14 Foster Street 02109 Janet Mosley 26 Lombard Rd 02476
Bodwell I regularly bike to work along Memorial Drive - now with COVID and the need for people to get outside and exercise
So many other MA towns and cities want to do this - Cambridge can be a leader and role model! Kristen Palma 32 High Street
Cambridge can be a leader and role model! Kristen Palma 32 High Street Cyrus Hamer 129 Auburn St. 02139
Kristen Palma 32 High Street Cyrus Hamer 129 Auburn St. 02139 Kellan M
Simpson Rob Hayes Street
and mental healthy during this crisis. We need ensure that all Cambridge residents can enjoy the outdoors safely. Please close Memorial Drive 7 days a week (starting at 6
Cambridge residents can enjoy the outdoors safely. Please close Memorial Drive 7 days a week (starting at 6 a.m. instead of 11 a.m.) until November to allow for social
in the street to avoid these people, but I really don’t want to get hit by cars. I was so hoping that all of Memorial Drive would be closed, but closing 2 lanes (with barriers) would be
lanes and lower speed limits where possible. Douglas Clark Street
like to be able to bike on the more picturesque route on the bike path next to Memorial Drive but am amazed that while it has been too crowded to social distance for nearly two
road with cars makes not just me, but the car drivers as well, very nervous. Despite living .2 miles from Memorial Drive we can't use it because of the narrow, crowded sidewalks.
the volume of people utilizing limited bike paths in Somerville, improved access to areas like Memorial Drive would allow me to safely access many more miles of riding, without concern
Cambridgeport/Mid-Cambridge grocery shoppers living to the north, south, or west of the Whole Foods on River St and Trader Joe's near Memorial Drive (plaza between Pleasant
north, south, or west of the Whole Foods on River St and Trader Joe's near Memorial Drive (plaza between Pleasant and Magazine). Closing low-hanging fruit streets, such as
Packet Pg. 251 Wendy Dodd 67 Porter Road 02140 I am a senior citizen and love to walk
rogue dog turds. Keeping actual public recreational open spaces closed - like Memorial Drive and Mt Auburn Cemetery along with all of the playgrounds - is forcing dangerous
space for people to go. I work in Cambridge near Central Square and am a bike commuter. We need better infrastructure to allow people to
welcome start. I like to walk in Cambridgeport and Riverside and along the Memorial Drive path . Sadly, the Mem Drive the path is too
I like to walk in Cambridgeport and Riverside and along the Memorial Drive path . Sadly, the Mem Drive the path is too narrow to accommodate an increasing number of speeding
do not understand the decision to suspend the Sunday shutdown of Memorial Drive - it is the one, safe way many people can get out and remain safely distant while they
Comment Larry Kolodney 4 Austin Park walking with safe distancing during the MA reopening phases
Michael Weber 41 Newport Rd 02139 Sarah White Street
Street Jon Gjengset 250 Elm Street 02139 Laura Sheffield 219 Brookline St 02139
Jon Gjengset 250 Elm Street 02139 Laura Sheffield 219 Brookline St 02139 Cambridge. I don’t understand why you didn’t open Memorial
Laura Sheffield 219 Brookline St 02139 Cambridge. I don’t understand why you didn’t open Memorial Drive as normal. The least harmful thing you could have
Comment Anna E Smith 57 Alpine Street 02144 Colin Barr
#2 Courtney Hite 3 Soden Place We have limited personal outdoor space and would love to
the Sunday car-free memorial drive was cancelled because of Covid. This causes more crowding, not less. Memorial Drive would be better off as a pedestrian zone 7 days a week than
(age 78) or getting hit by a vehicle. 3. Closing some lanes on Memorial Drive every day would mean no worry about great masses of walkers on single Sundays, no need for big police
AVE Nora Grodzins 12 Parker Street 02138 Melissa Ludtke
Street Massachusetts Avenue
street without parent accompaniment. traffic on Willard Street is way too fast, endangering my young grandchildren and pedestrians on our narrow sidewalk.
young grandchildren and pedestrians on our narrow sidewalk. Please slow the traffic on Willard Street and create more protected bike lanes/streets throughout the city. Thank you.
Ellen Aronson Fayerweather Street
more awareness around bike safety. I commute to MIT by bike almost every day from the Porter Square area to reach Kendall Square, and frequently feel I
Packet Pg. 270 Abigail Butkus 15 Lee Street Name
walk and bike safer in Cambridge. (especially in the Central Square area. I do not have a car. I need better, safer options for commuting and accessing the
Avenue Ken Field Street
nervous about not being able to practice social distancing and riding along Memorial Drive bike path with so many more pedestrians.
to pull over. unacceptable. Edgar Farfan 41 5th Street Matthew
Chesney Huron Avenue Rosemary
Comment Maggie Booz 27 Lawn Street 02138 Rebecca
Epsen Judith Wilson 36 Jay Street I would be less anxious and less angry
Schulert Suzanne Blier 5 Fuller Place Laura Lynch Walden Street
Suzanne Blier 5 Fuller Place Laura Lynch Walden Street Rachel Fox
Also, I am extremely disappointed that the City has decided not to close off Memorial Drive to car traffic on Sundays, even after the City Council voted to close Memorial Drive to all
not to close off Memorial Drive to car traffic on Sundays, even after the City Council voted to close Memorial Drive to all vehicular traffic!!
Cherston Fayerweather Street
In light of COVID-19, residents cannot consistently and safely share space along Memorial Drive paths without expanded bike infrastructure.
pedestrians. I bike to Cambridge almost every day for exercise at the Charles River and to shop at Trader Joe's. Memorial Drive
I bike to Cambridge almost every day for exercise at the Charles River and to shop at Trader Joe's. Memorial Drive has become a terrifying part of the journey and obviously the
river, I could actually enjoy it, unlike the motorists speeding down Memorial Drive at speeds that require 100% focus on the road.
St, Apt 2 bridge and then either left or right on Memorial Drive. Since social distancing has become necessary, we no longer take
with more cars on the roads. Please open Memorial Drive for socially-distanced excercise and for essential employees; I ride from Somerville to
Please open Memorial Drive for socially-distanced excercise and for essential employees; I ride from Somerville to Waltham to sort mail in my office at Brandeis University and
commuting. Richard Plumb 14 Gerry Street 02138 I'd feel safer traveling by bike in the city.
Alana Aubin Melisa Rojas 2 Earhart Street 02141 I'm deeply distressed that Cambridge has responded to the
Melisa Rojas 2 Earhart Street 02141 I'm deeply distressed that Cambridge has responded to the covid-crisis by closing down streets that are usually open to
Street Juliet K Stone 29B Jay Street 02139 I bike to most places I go in Cambridge, have appreciated all
ensure safety for all community members. Memorial Drive should be closed to vehicular traffic to allow for pedestrians and cyclists to commute / get fresh air and
Avenue Bailey Werner 427 Broadway Easier for me to get my running in since I usually run on
As a runner, I would be safer; I currently run into traffic on Memorial Drive DAILY Irene kanf
Comment Roy Russell Street
Dear Council of the City of Cambridge, My name is Carl Rothenhaus and I am a resident of 75 Lawn Street in the Strawberry Hill neighborhood of our fair city. I am writing to communicate my support for Policy Orders 2020
Mayor Siddiqui, Councilors, My name is Carolyn Fuller and I live at 12 Douglass St in Central Square Cambridge. I am a member of A Better Cambridge, and, as such, I am here this evening to thank you for
Stephen Kaiser Hamilton Street Packet Pg. 309
Public comment (via email): Reduce the Cambridge Police Department budget Dear Cambridge City Council and City Manager, My name is Nell Hawley and I am a resident of Cambridge (254 Upland Road, Apt. 1, Cambridge MA
Dear Cambridge City Council and City Manager, My name is Nell Hawley and I am a resident of Cambridge (254 Upland Road, Apt. 1, Cambridge MA to do so because I want to help put an end to the systemic anti-Black racism inherent in policing across
Monday, June 8, 2020 12:27 PM Comment on June 8th Policy Order #7 Hello, my name is Jan Stefan Kaczmarek and I live at 3 Riverside Place. I moved to Cambridge in 2002, but this is my first
Comment on June 8th Policy Order #7 Hello, my name is Jan Stefan Kaczmarek and I live at 3 Riverside Place. I moved to Cambridge in 2002, but this is my first time giving public comment. The murder of George Floyd has so shocked and horrified me that I want to advocate for
Hello, my name is Jan Stefan Kaczmarek and I live at 3 Riverside Place. I moved to Cambridge in 2002, but this is my first time giving public comment. The murder of George Floyd has so shocked and horrified me that I want to advocate for tangible actions and real change to help my black and brown neighbors. Our police department already has sufficient
Re: Closing streets Petition · Cambridge City Manager Close some Cambridge Streets to promote a healthy re-opening · Change.org.pdf
to participate in the first opening day next week by taking my mother, who requires the use of a wheelchair, from her home near Central Square to mine via the Harvard (shared) Street. She has not done this trip (or many others) on her own before because traveling long distances in her chair is often fraught with dangers including broken sidewalks,
others. The sidewalks around her apartment are woefully inadequate and do not promote social distancing. Recently, I went to Whole Foods on Prospect Street to get her tea, and noticed that the line forming on the sidewalk to enter means you either walk/wheel within a foot or two of all the people waiting or step into traffic. A person in a wheelchair
where do the pedestrians go? Finally, I want to convey another incident I observed two weeks ago. When driving my car (I am not anti-car) on Lambert Street by Millers River Apartments, I observed another driver honk their horn at a man in a wheelchair who was
Finally, I want to convey another incident I observed two weeks ago. When driving my car (I am not anti-car) on Lambert Street by Millers River Apartments, I observed another driver honk their horn at a man in a wheelchair who was traveling slowly in the street, probably because the sidewalk is too narrow or otherwise obstructed. The audacity of the
and traffic so that more space can be given to people. If we don’t do it now, it will be too late when the gridlock I urge the City Manager to consider closing Mass Ave through Central Sq, Harvard Sq, Porter Sq, and Cambridge Street from Inman Sq into E Cambridge, to all vehicles except buses and emergency vehicles — Cars will find their way
I urge the City Manager to consider closing Mass Ave through Central Sq, Harvard Sq, Porter Sq, and Cambridge Street from Inman Sq into E Cambridge, to all vehicles except buses and emergency vehicles — Cars will find their way around, but we shouldn’t be going out of our way to convenience those who want to get through our city as quickly as
speeding cars. Let our kids have free reign this summer. Finally - close Memorial Drive for good. Connect our city with its waterfront for its entire length from Arlington to Kendall and Lechmere. If someone wants to drive 50 mph, let them use limited access Storrow. The paths on Memorial
Finally - close Memorial Drive for good. Connect our city with its waterfront for its entire length from Arlington to Kendall and Lechmere. If someone wants to drive 50 mph, let them use limited access Storrow. The paths on Memorial Drive are WAY too narrow to support the number of people who use it. Why force them onto sidewalks that at times
Packet Pg. 318 Petition · Cambridge City Manager: Close some Cambridge Streets to promote a healthy re-opening · Change.org Log in
Go to my petition’s dashboard Close some Cambridge Streets to promote a healthy re- Page 2 of 16
Packet Pg. 319 Petition · Cambridge City Manager: Close some Cambridge Streets to promote a healthy re-opening · Change.org Luis Mejias started this petition to Cambridge City Manager Louis DePasquale and 2 others
Petition · Cambridge City Manager: Close some Cambridge Streets to promote a healthy re-opening · Change.org Luis Mejias started this petition to Cambridge City Manager Louis DePasquale and 2 others Cities around the world and right here next to Cambridge, MA, are acting responsibly toward re-opening their economies
Packet Pg. 320 Petition · Cambridge City Manager: Close some Cambridge Streets to promote a healthy re-opening · Change.org We are already experiencing the beneﬁts of reduced trafﬁc, including much lower air pollution and less noise. The re-
hard to turn a proﬁt if their occupancy is limited. We know how to avoid this and promote the public health and safety. Local examples could include reducing vehicle access and parking on Mass Ave in Central, Harvard, and Porter Squares, and Cambridge Street around Inman Square into E Cambridge, allowing for wider sidewalks for restaurant seating and
Local examples could include reducing vehicle access and parking on Mass Ave in Central, Harvard, and Porter Squares, and Cambridge Street around Inman Square into E Cambridge, allowing for wider sidewalks for restaurant seating and retail, to reducing travel lanes or closing Memorial Drive completely, fully connecting Cambridge to its waterfront and
and Cambridge Street around Inman Square into E Cambridge, allowing for wider sidewalks for restaurant seating and retail, to reducing travel lanes or closing Memorial Drive completely, fully connecting Cambridge to its waterfront and creating a walking/running paradise and bicycle highway from Arlington to Kendall Square and downtown Boston.
retail, to reducing travel lanes or closing Memorial Drive completely, fully connecting Cambridge to its waterfront and creating a walking/running paradise and bicycle highway from Arlington to Kendall Square and downtown Boston. The City Council recommended the City Manager enact such measures weeks ago, but nothing has happened. From
Packet Pg. 321 Petition · Cambridge City Manager: Close some Cambridge Streets to promote a healthy re-opening · Change.org Luis Mejias started this petition
Packet Pg. 322 Petition · Cambridge City Manager: Close some Cambridge Streets to promote a healthy re-opening · Change.org Delete this comment
That the City Clerk be and hereby is requested to forward a suitably engrossed copy of this resolution to Audible’s Cambridge office at 101 Main Street on behalf of the entire City Council.
to consider the request from Peter Watchorn for an appropriate dedication at the corner of Watson Street and Salem Street in honor of the late Greg Miller; and be it further That the City Clerk be and hereby is requested to forward this order to the Dedication
