originally started with two buildings of 120 feet in height. We are now down to 90 feet along the Binney Street side and 60 feet along the back. We have also limited our rooftop mechanical penthouse to 25 feet in height as well. Commitment letter benefits. This is where we do have a
more than 10 years. It's a very exciting opportunity that we have here, as our benefit would be and Cambridge street connecting Cambridge Street to Kendall Square off street. Michelle Lower, Vice President, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. 14:05
Michelle Lower, Vice President, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. 14:05 You can see this is a view looking southward from Cambridge Street, where the yellow box is looking down towards Binney street just showing the actual area where it would be the yellow,
You can see this is a view looking southward from Cambridge Street, where the yellow box is looking down towards Binney street just showing the actual area where it would be the yellow, excuse me, the yellow area is 14 feet wide, and that is the strip that we would be conveying to
the City or knock it down and then give it to the city. You can see just for orientation, Loyal Nine, the cafe is on the left. This is 686 Cambridge Street, which we can't wait until it looks like this, a real pocket Park opportunity here. A gateway into the Grand Junction pathway, think Linear
the cafe is on the left. This is 686 Cambridge Street, which we can't wait until it looks like this, a real pocket Park opportunity here. A gateway into the Grand Junction pathway, think Linear Park up in North Cambridge. A nice area really to invite people into, excuse me, the multi-use
real pocket Park opportunity here. A gateway into the Grand Junction pathway, think Linear Park up in North Cambridge. A nice area really to invite people into, excuse me, the multi-use path from Cambridge Street down moving southwards toward Kendall Square. Here you can
Park up in North Cambridge. A nice area really to invite people into, excuse me, the multi-use path from Cambridge Street down moving southwards toward Kendall Square. Here you can see this is just an overview of what our actual parcel is. Excuse me, there, it is currently zoned
see because you can't really zoom in. But we have both what we like to call the Oklahoma shaped piece as well as the strip that goes all the way to, from Binney Street to Cambridge Street. I will also note the land area in the along the 1,800 linear feet is not included in our FAR
site to say that it would be potentially a site they could use for a substation. So, they could move it from the Fulkerson Street site to this site. Part of that agreement is between two private parties. They're still working out final discussion points on how this would happen, what would
what they said they were going to do. And you know, when the process of seeing that now especially with the new park on Binney Street and the Foundry building. And so, I do think that they have really been negotiated quite a bit with the neighbors and Wellington harriton. One part
especially with the new park on Binney Street and the Foundry building. And so, I do think that they have really been negotiated quite a bit with the neighbors and Wellington harriton. One part is East Cambridge Planning team. And especially I want to mention, you know, both Councillor
which is such an environmental benefit in many regards But so, my level is risen, of confidence that this Eversource will not be built on Fulkerson Street and that land will be talked about quite a bit and what the future use. I know housing and open space is main topics that people have
the Ordinance Committee at tomorrow’s meeting. We still want a public solution to the proposed Eversource substation on Fulkerson Street before Alexandria’s petition is passed. We have heard, and sincerely hope, that such an announcement
• Eliminate Transfer of Development Rights • Exclude lot area of Grand Junction Pathway, including Cambridge Street lot, from FAR calculations
feet to 90 feet • Reduce maximum height along Fulkerson Street in new “Transition Zone” down from 120 feet to 60 feet
• Exclude commercial building from residential district • Limit rooftop mechanical penthouse height in the Binney Street Zone to 25’ Packet Pg. 38
GRAND JUNCTION GREENWAY Existing Condition 686 Cambridge Street Packet Pg. 43
GRAND JUNCTION GREENWAY Proposed Cambridge Street Gateway Packet Pg. 44
height Binney Street Zone limit of 25’
