Board of Zoning Appeal Cases BZA-017326-2020 -- 2072 Massachusetts Avenue 109 P R O C E E D I N G S
continuing special permit hearing on 727 Mass Ave, and will also include an amendment for a special permit at 2 James Way.
So this is kind of mirroring the current zoning requirements we have in place in Central Square and Harvard Square, where if it's an existing building we don't need to
make your comments. RUTH RILES: This is Ruth Riles of 115 Upland Road, and I just want to say congratulations for beginning
city, there's an awful lot of vacant retail space now. And there's like a section of Mass Ave midway through Harvard and Central Square, there's a whole -- there are a bunch of
there's like a section of Mass Ave midway through Harvard and Central Square, there's a whole -- there are a bunch of office buildings that have retail spaces on the ground
I was just wondering what is so special about that district? You know, it's sort of between Mass Ave and Green Street. I don't quite understand that rationale.
construct a 49-unit affordable housing affordable housing development at 2072 Massachusetts Avenue with ground-floor commercial and residential amenity space.
that this is the same development, design and engineering team that's responsible for Frost Terrace -- 40 units of affordable housing just down the street at 1791 Mass Ave.
all familiar with this site. It is a quarter mile or so from Porter Square, half mile from Davis Square, and nearby to several large, open green spaces. It's a slender site
restaurant; also a fairly blank party wall of 2050. Massachusetts Avenue, which is the Cambridge Housing Authority's Russell Apartments.
Massachusetts Avenue, which is the Cambridge Housing Authority's Russell Apartments. Next?
This gives you kind of a sense of the scale of this portion of Massachusetts Avenue, which includes the building I just talked about, another eight-story building
And next? We're looking now from Walden Street, moving towards the avenue. And here you can see how the building
Looking more closely at the streetscapes, this is the Massachusetts Avenue street front. In the middle is the residential entrance. In the right is the retail space, and
kind of curate that space, which we think would be great. And this is looking at Walden Street. I want to make it clear that this is not a perspective view, this is
stop on Mass Avenue, locating the residential entrance on Massachusetts Avenue, we began by locating it on Walden, but came to learn quickly that Mass Avenue with a much better
working with the city so that the project can enable a widening of Walden Street. Walden Street was formerly a two-lane road, and was at some point changed to a three-lane
road, which resulted in undersized travel lanes. And so, we're proposing to widen Walden Street by a couple of feet, which will make for three adequately
building at the rear, where it faces -- where it hits on Walden Street; widening Walden Street, which -- you know, I think it's important to point out that the restaurant pre-
But despite that, we're actually offering to improve Walden Street by basically giving a portion of our land to the public way in the form of an easement, which is
land to the public way in the form of an easement, which is the only opportunity that Walden Street will ever have to be widened. There's no other land where it can be widened
We heard a lot of concerns about from people that we don't want cars parking -- you know, double parking on Walden Street; Ubers, Lyfts, Amazon package deliveries, things like
So people are really struggling right now. We are -- as Jason alluded to, we have Frost Terrace down the street. It's starting its lease up process, and we just
Dreier, Jean Hermann, Ashley G. Pittman, and Cyrus Dochow, on behalf of the 5 Walden Street Condominium Association. So we have certainly received more communication since 5:00
There's a very short distance between the corner of Walden Street and the entrance to our building and the Senior Center next door. And our population is out there
Obviously, the bike park space, widening of the sidewalks on Walden Street, I don't -- I can get into that. I'm happy to talk to anyone about those elements and why
address. LISA DREIER: Lisa Dreier on Cogswell Avenue. JEFF ROBERTS: Thank you.
the Planning Board, thanks for the opportunity to comment. I'm a Cambridge native and a homeowner on Cogswell Avenue, which is one block away from the proposed building site.
dense for the local context. The Mass Ave Corridor north of Porter Square is home to a highly diverse array of buildings, including
with less density, more green space, more lot size, and a higher quality of life for residents, including Frost Terrace, which is designed by this same team presenting to
CHRISTOPHER SCHMIDT: Thank you. Christopher Schmidt, 17 Laurel Street. I love this building. My only complaint, as it always is is, you know, we're giving up
MITZI FENNEL: Hi, this is Mitzi Fennel. I live at 37 Creighton Street. Creighton Street is the next street closer to Porter Square from the proposed building. And we
at 37 Creighton Street. Creighton Street is the next street closer to Porter Square from the proposed building. And we are concerned about the impact that the building is going to
And I just wanted to give you the context of Creighton Street, which is going to be the first street that anyone who lives in that building is going to try parking
lay out. And Creighton Street's just a dead-end street, and we've always had challenges parking. We did our own parking
NORMA WASSEL: Hi, my name is Norma Wassel. I live at 175 Richdale Avenue, around the corner from Walden Street. I don't own a car and I'm a biker and take the 77
Harrington, but my mother, who requires the use of a wheelchair, lives at 5 Temple Street, and she is a CHA resident.
I do have a final point about the city continuing to encourage driving by widening roads -- here Walden Street. We hear complaints about traffic, so why is the
YOUNG KIM: Yeah, good evening. I'm sorry, I'm -- I got, okay. Young Kim, 17 Norris Street, a longtime resident of North Cambridge, half and half mile north of the
CYRUS DOCOHW: Thank you. My name is Cyrus Dochow. I live at 5 Walden Street. It's immediately across Walden Street from the proposed development. I speak to you
Dochow. I live at 5 Walden Street. It's immediately across Walden Street from the proposed development. I speak to you on behalf of the 5 Walden Street Condo Association,
Walden Street from the proposed development. I speak to you on behalf of the 5 Walden Street Condo Association, conditionally supporting the proposed development. Our
JEFF ROBERTS: Thank you. The next speaker is James Zall, followed by Eric Johnson. JAMES ZALL: I'm James Zall, 203 Pemberton Street.
James Zall, followed by Eric Johnson. JAMES ZALL: I'm James Zall, 203 Pemberton Street. I'd just like to mention that a representative from A Better
ERIC JOHNSON: My name is Eric Johnson. My address is 24 Alberta Terrace, North Cambridge. I would like to say that this is an excellent project, and I fully
ALEIDA INGLIS: Okay. Hi, my name is Aleida Inglis. And I'm a near neighbor of the project on Cogswell Avenue. And I think the project is very beautiful in many
that whatever will grace our dicey corner of Mass Ave and Walden Street will have the required setbacks, the required green open spaces, and a scale and density commensurate with
heard that I had worked on -- with the developer, the architect and the neighbors at the other end of Porter Square. So I'm going to take a little different bent on
There is another project that will come before you on New Street. It's 130 units of affordable housing -- bigger site, six stories. Think of all the new affordable
And by the way, it's not just a couple of blocks from the Porter Square T, and it's not such an easy walk if you are elderly. So let's not exaggerate the wonders of its
MICHAEL BRANDON: Hi, members of the Board. This is Michael Brandon. I live at 27 Seven Pines Avenue. I'm the clerk for the North Cambridge Stabilization Committee,
is Michael Brandon. I live at 27 Seven Pines Avenue. I'm the clerk for the North Cambridge Stabilization Committee, and unfortunately, we haven't been able to schedule a
CATHERINE PRESTON CONNOLLY: Wrap up, please. MICHAEL BRANDON: Massachusetts Avenue Overlay District, this is all being thrown out window. I hope --
neighborhood, and I've walked by this site probably every day for almost 40 years. I've driven on Walden Street. There's no question that Walden and Mass Ave is a
day for almost 40 years. I've driven on Walden Street. There's no question that Walden and Mass Ave is a difficult intersection. It's been made difficult in part by
years, and it is another restaurant with curb cuts, both on Mass Ave and on Walden Street. But, you know, this is Mass Ave. And wherever
beyond what we had asked for in some cases in terms of, you know, sight lines if their driveway exits off of Walden Street.
And then finally, I'd just say, you know, there was a question about the widening of Walden Street and normally yes, we're not pro widening streets.
to I think by one of the presenters in the beginning, you know, Walden Street really isn't actually wide enough for three lanes, even though we somehow managed to squeeze them
