Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Mayor Siddiqui, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Nolan, Councillor Sobrinho- Wheeler (O-6) from 9/14/2020 Street, Raymond Street and Richdale Ave.
Wheeler (O-6) from 9/14/2020 Street, Raymond Street and Richdale Ave. Councillor Sobrinho-Wheeler, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor Simmons (O-11)
Nov 23, 2020 20-63. Report on a review of the granting of an extension for the 605 Concord Avenue project which appears counter to the City’s zoning code and confer with the relevant
has been deemed a lower-risk activity during the pandemic; and The Cambridge City Council passed a policy order in April that led to Riverbend Park being opened on Memorial Drive on both Saturdays and Sundays, which has provided
The Cambridge City Council passed a policy order in April that led to Riverbend Park being opened on Memorial Drive on both Saturdays and Sundays, which has provided an opportunity for residents to spend time outside while safely social distancing; and
Riverbend Park, which is owned and operated by Massachusetts Department of Conservation and Recreation (DCR) is currently scheduled to be open on Memorial Drive through Sunday, November 29, 2020; and
Riverbend Park open beyond November 29; and be it further That the city confer with DCR and advocate for extending Riverbend Park the length of Memorial Drive; and further be it
That the city confer with DCR and advocate for extending Riverbend Park the length of Memorial Drive; and further be it That the City or DCR collect data on residents’ usage of Riverbend Park to better
of Memorial Drive; and further be it That the City or DCR collect data on residents’ usage of Riverbend Park to better inform future decisions regarding its status; and be it further
has been deemed a lower-risk activity during the pandemic; and The Cambridge City Council passed a policy order in April that led to Riverbend Park being opened on Memorial Drive on both Saturdays and Sundays, which has provided
The Cambridge City Council passed a policy order in April that led to Riverbend Park being opened on Memorial Drive on both Saturdays and Sundays, which has provided an opportunity for residents to spend time outside while safely social distancing; and
Riverbend Park, which is owned and operated by Massachusetts Department of Conservation and Recreation (DCR) is currently scheduled to be open on Memorial Drive through Sunday, November 29, 2020; and
Riverbend Park open beyond November 29; and be it further That the city confer with DCR and advocate for extending Riverbend Park the length of Memorial Drive; and further be it
That the city confer with DCR and advocate for extending Riverbend Park the length of Memorial Drive; and further be it That the City or DCR collect data on residents’ usage of Riverbend Park to better
of Memorial Drive; and further be it That the City or DCR collect data on residents’ usage of Riverbend Park to better inform future decisions regarding its status; and be it further
disadvantaged businesses I write to you as a Cambridge business owner of 25 years, member of Cambridge Local First, Harvard Square Business, Central Square Business Association and Sustainable Business Network, and the Black Economic
I write to you as a Cambridge business owner of 25 years, member of Cambridge Local First, Harvard Square Business, Central Square Business Association and Sustainable Business Network, and the Black Economic Development Council (BECMA). I am also the facilitator for the newly formed Cambridge-Somerville Black
that was the end of it. It did not make the papers or go viral on any web site. The East Cambridge Planning Team is a group of residence of East Cambridge. The area is the Railroad tracks to the West, the Charles River to the East, Broadway to the
The East Cambridge Planning Team is a group of residence of East Cambridge. The area is the Railroad tracks to the West, the Charles River to the East, Broadway to the Packet Pg. 130
gamesmanship as about viable policy. A few examples for today’s upcoming meeting make the point clear. Please DO open Memorial Drive to walkers and bicyclists week-ends – the whole way. o Let everyone enjoy this area. This is NOT about East Cambridge versus West Cambridge or about
Please DO open Memorial Drive to walkers and bicyclists week-ends – the whole way. o Let everyone enjoy this area. This is NOT about East Cambridge versus West Cambridge or about walkers/bicyclists versus vehicles but about Council doing the best for its residents no matter where
Mid-Cambridge Neighborhood Association, Presiding Officer Porter Square Neighborhood Association Packet Pg. 154
Good evening councilors My name is Luis Mejias of 18 Plymouth Street on the border of Wellington-Harrington and East Cambridge, and I would like to express my support again of Policy Order #267 and #270.
would like to express my support again of Policy Order #267 and #270. I strongly encourage the Council to approve working with DCR to keep Riverbend Park open beyond November and east of Western Avenue all the way to the Longfellow Bridge and on to the Charles River Dam. I was
I strongly encourage the Council to approve working with DCR to keep Riverbend Park open beyond November and east of Western Avenue all the way to the Longfellow Bridge and on to the Charles River Dam. I was encouraged by the vote on the amendment last week to do so, but was extremely dismayed by the request for quote
supportive or had concerns that could be easily addressed without scrapping the program entirely. Exactly what is the goal of a robust process to implement a weekend closure of Memorial Drive south and east of Western Avenue? The purpose is to squash to the idea so that people traveling through Cambridge in private cars
Exactly what is the goal of a robust process to implement a weekend closure of Memorial Drive south and east of Western Avenue? The purpose is to squash to the idea so that people traveling through Cambridge in private cars are given priority over residents who want to walk or ride a bike socially distant from others.
expansion into east Cambridge, the Port, Wellington Harrington. Why are we being excluded? Why does north and west Cambridge get to enjoy Riverbend Park, while my south and east side of the city remains cut off from the riverfront by a 4 lane highway? I urge the council to pass the resolution and work with DCR to close Memorial Drive
west Cambridge get to enjoy Riverbend Park, while my south and east side of the city remains cut off from the riverfront by a 4 lane highway? I urge the council to pass the resolution and work with DCR to close Memorial Drive on weekends. There’s even enough room to close 1/2 of it and greatly increase the space for pedestrians and
Packet Pg. 158 Monday 11/23/20 Cambridge City Council Meeting - Public Comment Fritz Donovan – 42 Irving Street, Cambridge 02138 MA
Monday 11/23/20 Cambridge City Council Meeting - Public Comment Fritz Donovan – 42 Irving Street, Cambridge 02138 MA Madam Chair, Councilors –
right to table the vote and further discussion. Cambridge City Hall | 795 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139 ssiddiqui@cambridgema.gov│617-349-4321│tty: 617-492-0235│cambridgema.gov
Cambridge City Hall | 795 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139 ssiddiqui@cambridgema.gov│617-349-4321│tty: 617-492-0235│cambridgema.gov
o Regular Meeting | 6:00 PM Cambridge City Hall | 795 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139 ssiddiqui@cambridgema.gov│617-349-4321│tty: 617-492-0235│cambridgema.gov
Sumbul Siddiqui Cambridge City Hall | 795 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139 ssiddiqui@cambridgema.gov│617-349-4321│tty: 617-492-0235│cambridgema.gov
