of $400,000 from Free Cash to the Public Investment Fund Public Works Extraordinary Expenditures Account for the design of improvements at the River Street Firehouse. CMA 2020 #15
of $300,000 from Free Cash to the Public Investment Fund Public Works Extraordinary Expenditures Account for the design of improvements at the Lexington Avenue Firehouse. CMA 2020 #16
ON THE TABLE premises numbered 9 Pine Street; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works. No response has
III. APPLICATIONS AND PETITIONS numbered 907 Main Street; said petition has received approval from Inspectional Services, Traffic, Parking and Transportation, Historical Commission and Public Works. No response has been
ORDER ADOPTED on poles along Ames Street to promote the Galleries and their programming from February 5, 2020 thru September 31, 2020.
ORDER ADOPTED one hundred and eighty-nine banners on poles along Massachusetts Avenue on existing wires at Norfolk and JFK Streets, poles in Harvard Square, poles along Massachusetts Avenue from Vassar
one hundred and eighty-nine banners on poles along Massachusetts Avenue on existing wires at Norfolk and JFK Streets, poles in Harvard Square, poles along Massachusetts Avenue from Vassar Street to Harvard Square, poles along Broadway from Ellery Street to Felton Street, poles along
Norfolk and JFK Streets, poles in Harvard Square, poles along Massachusetts Avenue from Vassar Street to Harvard Square, poles along Broadway from Ellery Street to Felton Street, poles along Cambridge Street from Trowbridge to Hovey Streets and poles in Kendall Square to publicize the
Street to Harvard Square, poles along Broadway from Ellery Street to Felton Street, poles along Cambridge Street from Trowbridge to Hovey Streets and poles in Kendall Square to publicize the upcoming Cambridge Science Festival from March 16, 2020 thru April 27, 2020.
Cambridge Street from Trowbridge to Hovey Streets and poles in Kendall Square to publicize the upcoming Cambridge Science Festival from March 16, 2020 thru April 27, 2020. APP 2020 #4
Jan 27, 2020 16. A communication was received from Carol O'Hare and Walter McDonald, 172 Magazine Street, regarding extending the tree protection moratorium.
Jan 27, 2020 24. A communication was received from Cynthia Strong Hibbard, 23 Ellsworth Avenue, regarding Natural Gas Ban in New Construction.
24. A communication was received from Cynthia Strong Hibbard, 23 Ellsworth Avenue, regarding Natural Gas Ban in New Construction. COM 29 #2020
ORDER ADOPTED BY AFFIRMATIVE VOTE OF NINE MEMBERS Do Not Enter sign at the entrance of Whittemore Avenue from Alewife Brook Parkway to include an exception for abutters.
Transportation Department on the potential for implementing sufficient traffic-calming solutions on Upton Street. POR 2020 #12
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
(Calendar Item #5) from 10/7/2019 Central Square Library branch. Vice Mayor Mallon, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (Calendar Item #8)
Vice Mayor Mallon (O-1) from 10/21/2019 officers to work collaboratively with and exclusively within Cambridge Housing Authority premises in and near Central Square and the Port.
officers to work collaboratively with and exclusively within Cambridge Housing Authority premises in and near Central Square and the Port. Councillor Simmons, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-2) from
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
McGovern (O-1) from 11/25/2019 Saville Street and Walden Street Mayor Siddiqui, Vice Mayor Devereux (O-4) from
vehicles. Including, but not limited to, the following locations: o Massachusetts Avenue in Central, Harvard and Porter Square o Cambridge Street from First Street to Inman Square
o Massachusetts Avenue in Central, Harvard and Porter Square o Cambridge Street from First Street to Inman Square o Kendall Square
o Kendall Square o Huron Avenue o Concord Avenue
o Huron Avenue o Concord Avenue  This information will be shared with the Traffic, Parking and Transportation Department for
Fund Public Works Extraordinary Expenditures Account for the design of improvements at the River Street Firehouse. The work includes, but is not limited to, interior and building system upgrades, HVAC replacement, and envelope repair.
Fund Public Works Extraordinary Expenditures Account for the design of improvements at the Lexington Avenue Firehouse. The work includes, but is not limited to, interior and building system upgrades, and envelope repair.
Avenue Playground. Clarendon Avenue Playground, located at the corner of Clarendon Avenue and Massachusetts Avenue in North Cambridge is currently under construction, and was initially funded at
Clarendon Avenue Playground, located at the corner of Clarendon Avenue and Massachusetts Avenue in North Cambridge is currently under construction, and was initially funded at $950,000. An additional $300,000 is required to complete the project. This additional funding
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 9 Pine Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material specified by the
all abutting property owners to approve or not in relation to the proposed curb cut at 9 Pine Street. Forms with signatures (or not) shall but uploaded as the
That the Commissioner of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant a permit for the installation of a curb cut at the premises numbered 907 Main Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts; said authorization is conditioned upon use of material specified by the
WHEREAS: On January 18, 2020, Dr. Robin DiAngelo, Author of White Fragility, will be speaking at the King Open Cambridge Street Upper School Auditorium about the importance of,
On January 18, 2020, Dr. Robin DiAngelo, Author of White Fragility, will be speaking at the King Open Cambridge Street Upper School Auditorium about the importance of, and strategies around, holding open and honest discussions about racism; now
she was also a lifelong member of Union Baptist Church; and WHEREAS: Gloria Adkins married Alfred Lawrence Adkins of Lake Wales, FL, on December 21, 1952, and she settled on Hayes Street, raising her family and residing
WHEREAS: Gloria Adkins married Alfred Lawrence Adkins of Lake Wales, FL, on December 21, 1952, and she settled on Hayes Street, raising her family and residing there until her passing; and
Deborah L. Anderson, recently celebrated her 90th birthday on Sunday, January 26, Deborah first opened the doors to Debbie’s Beauty Salon on the corner of Concord Avenue and Alpine Street in 1958; and
Deborah first opened the doors to Debbie’s Beauty Salon on the corner of Concord Avenue and Alpine Street in 1958; and Debbie’s Beauty Salon, which Deborah co-owned and ran alongside her late sister,
Deborah had been an active member of the Cambridge community for many decades, with the opening Debbie’s Beauty Salon in the 1950s with her sister Francis Pierce on the corner of Concord Avenue and Alpine Street; and
with the opening Debbie’s Beauty Salon in the 1950s with her sister Francis Pierce on the corner of Concord Avenue and Alpine Street; and Deborah has since raised six children, and has gone on to have seven grandchildren
ORDERED: Alewife Brook Parkway experiences crippling congestion daily between the Concord Turnpike interchange and Massachusetts Avenue during the evening rush hours that
Alewife Brook Parkway experiences crippling congestion daily between the Concord Turnpike interchange and Massachusetts Avenue during the evening rush hours that can ensnarl commuters through numerous light cycles; and
can ensnarl commuters through numerous light cycles; and For those who reside on Whittemore Avenue or one of its connecting streets, access to this residential neighborhood is cut off from 3:00PM to 7:00PM even to abutters,
causing further consumption of time, fuel, and road space as residents are forced to drive through the Massachusetts Avenue intersection; now therefore be it That the City Manager be and hereby is requested to work with all relevant city and
That the City Manager be and hereby is requested to work with all relevant city and state departments to amend the Do Not Enter sign at the entrance of Whittemore Avenue from Alewife Brook Parkway to include an exception for abutters.
state departments to amend the Do Not Enter sign at the entrance of Whittemore Avenue from Alewife Brook Parkway to include an exception for abutters. In City Council January 27, 2020.
That the Mayor be and hereby is requested to schedule a Roundtable/Working Meeting for members of the City Council and School Committee for Tuesday, February 11, Latin School, 459 Broadway, to begin discussions on a preliminary budget for Fiscal
It has come to the attention of the City Council that families and administrators of the Amigos School, 15 Upton Street, feel that Upton Street is in need of sufficient traffic- calming interventions to better ensure the safety of students, caregivers, staff, and
Traffic, Parking and Transportation Department on the potential for implementing sufficient traffic-calming solutions on Upton Street, including but not limited to those mentioned above, and report back to the City Council on this matter in a timely matter.
The CEOC provides this service in English, Spanish, Haitian Kreyol, Amharic and Portuguese at its 11 Inman Street office and at sites throughout the Cambridge community in order to make the filing process easy for all tax filers; and
Lucey and then by Sarah Gallop. Hi, Jason Alves. I am the executive director of these Cambridge Business Association, 877 Cambridge Street. I think that it's safe to say that I have not encountered a small business owner that doesn't
of small businesses that would be negatively impacted by this. I often think about, you know, currently on Cambridge Street, we have a hole in the ground where the sunset cafe used to be and this is something that they, as this building is rebuilt, that they would be subject to this. So how would a person building a
Thank you very much. Next up is Sarah Gallop followed by Steve Lee's from, I think NGA, followed by what looks like Jim Brown from Avon Hill Street. I'm Sarah gallop from MIT. I'm co director of government and community relations and I thought I had
Thank you very much. Next up is Ed Woll, followed by Matthew Schreiner. Thank you. My name is Ed Woll at 79 Dana Street. Thank you for the opportunity to speak today. I'd like to focus first on the notion of preemption. I don't know of a bill in Massachusetts that requires a building
Thank you. My name is Ed Woll at 79 Dana Street. Thank you for the opportunity to speak today. I'd like to focus first on the notion of preemption. I don't know of a bill in Massachusetts that requires a building to have gas, or requires me to cook with gas or heat my hot water with gas, or heat my house or cool my
looking at that same as we're looking towards the Tobin school and we're looking at the Tobin Montessori Vassal Lane Upper School that we're just in the feasibility study for... we are looking at it being a total net zero emissions building as well. There will be some... which we're looking at geothermal. If we don't have
committee member Councillor Siddiqui. So before we get started, just wanted to make a couple of quick announcements. Michael Monestime from the Central Square BID wanted to join us but unfortunately he won't be able to be here tonight. He sent us a message that said "I'm sorry my
the Caribbean and African Diaspora. Our festival stakeholders to make this work are Mas Bands which are the costume groups, steel bands, and our artists. And it's held in Central Square Cultural District since its beginning. That's definitely been the heart and soul of Carnival- Central
which are the costume groups, steel bands, and our artists. And it's held in Central Square Cultural District since its beginning. That's definitely been the heart and soul of Carnival- Central Square. A snapshot of Carnival across the world: You have it in your document but there are 24
we did in Carl Barron Square. And over the years, we've sort of evolved we've moved from Central Square to Kendall Square, because we outgrew it. And so the first 10 years we were in Central Square, and we ended up in Kendall Square in 2005. Our current programs- we have an
Central Square to Kendall Square, because we outgrew it. And so the first 10 years we were in Central Square, and we ended up in Kendall Square in 2005. Our current programs- we have an annual International Festival and Parade. We have community collaborations with various
Neighborhood & Long Term Planning, Public Facilities, Arts & Celebration CommitteeDecember 19, 2019 needs to be recognized as such in the Central Square Cultural District. Our city seeks to promote diversity and celebration in all cultures, and to support and stimulate the public purpose
Technology Square, resulting in two individuals being shot, and several other individuals being trampled. A secondary shooting, believed to be related to that shooting, occurred on River and William Street. Several houses were damaged, we recovered a large caliber weapon, and we
trampled. A secondary shooting, believed to be related to that shooting, occurred on River and William Street. Several houses were damaged, we recovered a large caliber weapon, and we made several arrests based on both of those shooting incidents. The video of that event I can
can't stress, were wonderful to work with. I can't stress that enough. I conducted several meetings between the Cambridge Carnival Committee board and then that larger intergovernmental group. We facilitated meetings between what was then the Central Square
meetings between the Cambridge Carnival Committee board and then that larger intergovernmental group. We facilitated meetings between what was then the Central Square Business Association and the Cambridge Carnival board. We held two committee meetings, one
intergovernmental group. We facilitated meetings between what was then the Central Square Business Association and the Cambridge Carnival board. We held two committee meetings, one in conjunction with the board, and Central Square and MIT, and then one that we held alone.
Business Association and the Cambridge Carnival board. We held two committee meetings, one in conjunction with the board, and Central Square and MIT, and then one that we held alone. And then we conducted several internal planning sessions where different policing strategies
Yes, thanks for this opportunity. When I first came to this city in 1973, you know, it was the early days of Cambridge, and I used to walk from Central Square to Harvard Square. And that route was filled with nightclubs, and, you know, Cambridge has a wealth of diversity that it was this
days of Cambridge, and I used to walk from Central Square to Harvard Square. And that route was filled with nightclubs, and, you know, Cambridge has a wealth of diversity that it was this uh, you know, just walking from Central Square to Harvard Square at night was like, that was
was filled with nightclubs, and, you know, Cambridge has a wealth of diversity that it was this uh, you know, just walking from Central Square to Harvard Square at night was like, that was my joy. You know, I was in high school, but just doing that made me feel alive. Speaking on the
Thank you. James Williamson is next. Thanks so much, James. Three minutes. James Williamson Thanks. James Williamson, 1000 Jackson Place in Cambridge. I guess I want to start with a
James Williamson Thanks. James Williamson, 1000 Jackson Place in Cambridge. I guess I want to start with a little bit of my own experience. I was sitting on a bench behind the reviewing stand in 2017,
are not from the city. It's like asking for a combustion. And I'll give you one more example. And this again was during Commissioner Haas. Some Caribbean people on Prospect Street had an annual party. And someone called about noise. And the police came and told them to turn down
something that Councillor Carlone said around we don't have museums here. We do have a museum in Central Square, the MIT Museum, and it's going away. I don't know what MIT's plans for the first floor of that building. It's right here in the cultural district. We've been thinking a
lot about how do we bring more arts and culture into the Cultural District to make sure that it isn't...all the arts and culture don't just leave Central Square and we say, jeez, isn't that too bad? So is there a way to be intentional around that space here in Central Square to really think
isn't...all the arts and culture don't just leave Central Square and we say, jeez, isn't that too bad? So is there a way to be intentional around that space here in Central Square to really think about a Caribbean Cultural Center to again, add on that layer of this isn't just this one thing. So I
Neighborhood & Long Term Planning, Public Facilities, Arts & Celebration CommitteeDecember 19, 2019 we tie it to Central Square? But again, these are not overnight decisions. But we're, I'm hearing you.
Nicola Williams I just want to mention too that Michael Monestime said that the Central Square BID, because he's aware of this plan, can help.
• Festival stakeholders are Mas Bands, Steel Pans, Artists • Held in the Central Square Cultural District Cambridge Carnival Public Hearing, December 19, 2019
• Held in the Central Square Cultural District Cambridge Carnival Public Hearing, December 19, 2019 Packet Pg. 281
• “Jamborees” held in the Carl Barron Plaza/Square over the years • The festival was held at University Park as a small street fair. The parade started at Blackstone street and went up Western Ave and through Central Square.
• The festival was held at University Park as a small street fair. The parade started at Blackstone street and went up Western Ave and through Central Square. • The festival moved to Central Square after few years due to growth and construction
Blackstone street and went up Western Ave and through Central Square. • The festival moved to Central Square after few years due to growth and construction being held in University Park.
• The festival moved to Central Square after few years due to growth and construction being held in University Park. construction in Central Square
being held in University Park. construction in Central Square • A few more years later for only one year the river on Memorial Drive due to
construction in Central Square • A few more years later for only one year the river on Memorial Drive due to Cambridge Carnival Public Hearing, December 19, 2019
• A few more years later for only one year the river on Memorial Drive due to Cambridge Carnival Public Hearing, December 19, 2019 Packet Pg. 283
• The outcome of the meeting resulted in a new location of Kendall Square accompanied by a parade route that began on Sidney Street • In 2008, based on community feedback and input (especially from seniors), we worked with
• In 2008, based on community feedback and input (especially from seniors), we worked with City to reclaim our old route starting from the River Street Cambridge Carnival Public Hearing, December 19, 2019
City to reclaim our old route starting from the River Street Cambridge Carnival Public Hearing, December 19, 2019 Packet Pg. 284
• Community Collaborations: – Margaret Fuller House, Moses Youth Center, Walden Square Community Association, Fletcher Maynard Academy, Community Art Center, Central Square
– Margaret Fuller House, Moses Youth Center, Walden Square Community Association, Fletcher Maynard Academy, Community Art Center, Central Square Cultural District
TASTE OF CARNIVAL • 2nd Taste of Carnival is organized by Cambridge Carnival International in collaboration with the Central Square Cultural District and Cambridge Arts
• 2nd Taste of Carnival is organized by Cambridge Carnival International in collaboration with the Central Square Cultural District and Cambridge Arts with support by the City of Cambridge.
with support by the City of Cambridge. • To be held, February 29, 2019, 12-7pm in the Central Square Cultural District, Christian Life Center, 85 Bishop Allen Drive.
• To be held, February 29, 2019, 12-7pm in the Central Square Cultural District, Christian Life Center, 85 Bishop Allen Drive. • An indoor community festival celebrating the Caribbean and African Diaspora
CULTURAL PRESERVATION - A SUSTAINABILITY PLAN • Cambridge Carnival International is an important and key cultural event that needs to be recognized as such in the Central Square Cultural District
• Cambridge Carnival International is an important and key cultural event that needs to be recognized as such in the Central Square Cultural District • The City seeks to promote diversity and the celebration of all cultures in order to
be noted that there's a difference between replacement cost and the inherent value of a tree. You know, if I look at the inherent value of a tree, for example, we lost a tree on Gore Street maybe a year and a half ago when the gas company took down that tree. That tree's value was
Thank you. Trumbull Barrett. There we go. Good afternoon. My name is Trumbull Barrett. I live at 11 King Street. And I also happen to be the president of a Barrett Tree Service East in Medford. And I want to thank the
There we go. Good afternoon. My name is Trumbull Barrett. I live at 11 King Street. And I also happen to be the president of a Barrett Tree Service East in Medford. And I want to thank the folks at the DPW, particularly David and Andrew for all the work they've done in implementing
time some of you I haven't met before. I'm Peter Cohen. My wife Michelle and I live at 11 Donnell Street in Cambridge, where we've lived since July 14, 1994. Prior to that I lived most of my life in the Agassi neighborhood. We have a large lot with two buildings on it. And they're 40,
up at city council member meetings. Florrie Wescout, I live at 33 Market Street. And I'm a member of the Committee on Public Planting and also served on the task force and also a member of mothers up front. And I'm here
Thank you Florrie. Chantal Eide. Hello, I'm Chantal Eide, I'm 20 Ellsworth Avenue. I'm also on the committee for public planting. I'd like to request an extension for the tree protection ordinance. The urban forestry master plan
Councillor Quinton Zondervan Thank you. Lee Farris. Good afternoon, Lee Farris 269 Norfolk Street. Responding to the testimony that I heard today I
Thank you. Lee Farris. Good afternoon, Lee Farris 269 Norfolk Street. Responding to the testimony that I heard today I had a few questions as well as a few thoughts. I'm wondering if the city could ask the tree
Thanks, and I did. Maggie. Hi, I'm Maggie Booz. I live at 27 Lawn Street in Cambridge. I'm a... I'm the co chair of the committee on public planting, and I'm also a member of the tree task force for the urban forest
to “Significant Trees,” which are defined as trees Prospect Street Overlay Districts). greater than 8” DBH.
uses (such as parking facilities or townhouses) and limited districts (such as the Parkway or Prospect Street Overlay Districts).
and limited districts (such as the Parkway or Prospect Street Overlay Districts). The Zoning Ordinance also includes
Narrow residential streets with front yards Western Avenue, Cambridge San Francisco
