be noted that there's a difference between replacement cost and the inherent value of a tree. You know, if I look at the inherent value of a tree, for example, we lost a tree on Gore Street maybe a year and a half ago when the gas company took down that tree. That tree's value was
Thank you. Trumbull Barrett. There we go. Good afternoon. My name is Trumbull Barrett. I live at 11 King Street. And I also happen to be the president of a Barrett Tree Service East in Medford. And I want to thank the
There we go. Good afternoon. My name is Trumbull Barrett. I live at 11 King Street. And I also happen to be the president of a Barrett Tree Service East in Medford. And I want to thank the folks at the DPW, particularly David and Andrew for all the work they've done in implementing
time some of you I haven't met before. I'm Peter Cohen. My wife Michelle and I live at 11 Donnell Street in Cambridge, where we've lived since July 14, 1994. Prior to that I lived most of my life in the Agassi neighborhood. We have a large lot with two buildings on it. And they're 40,
up at city council member meetings. Florrie Wescout, I live at 33 Market Street. And I'm a member of the Committee on Public Planting and also served on the task force and also a member of mothers up front. And I'm here
Thank you Florrie. Chantal Eide. Hello, I'm Chantal Eide, I'm 20 Ellsworth Avenue. I'm also on the committee for public planting. I'd like to request an extension for the tree protection ordinance. The urban forestry master plan
Councillor Quinton Zondervan Thank you. Lee Farris. Good afternoon, Lee Farris 269 Norfolk Street. Responding to the testimony that I heard today I
Thank you. Lee Farris. Good afternoon, Lee Farris 269 Norfolk Street. Responding to the testimony that I heard today I had a few questions as well as a few thoughts. I'm wondering if the city could ask the tree
Thanks, and I did. Maggie. Hi, I'm Maggie Booz. I live at 27 Lawn Street in Cambridge. I'm a... I'm the co chair of the committee on public planting, and I'm also a member of the tree task force for the urban forest
to “Significant Trees,” which are defined as trees Prospect Street Overlay Districts). greater than 8” DBH.
uses (such as parking facilities or townhouses) and limited districts (such as the Parkway or Prospect Street Overlay Districts).
and limited districts (such as the Parkway or Prospect Street Overlay Districts). The Zoning Ordinance also includes
Narrow residential streets with front yards Western Avenue, Cambridge San Francisco
