Public Hearings PB# 357 -- 966 Cambridge Street 7 PB# 339 (continued from 11/12/2019) 156
And there's also going to be a public hearing on a proposed hotel development at 34 to 36 Hampshire Street. And after all that, it's our hope, and I believe as of this
for adoption, so we can move right into our 6:30 public hearing on Planning Board Special Permit #357, 966 Cambridge Street. The applicant can go ahead and present the -- thank
GERRY MCDONOUGH: Good evening, Madam Chair. My name is Gerry McDonough, M-c-D-o-n-o-u-g-h. I live at 13 Hollis Street in North Cambridge, and my -- I have a legal
name is Gerry McDonough, M-c-D-o-n-o-u-g-h. I live at 13 Hollis Street in North Cambridge, and my -- I have a legal office at 125 Cambridge Park Drive.
Hollis Street in North Cambridge, and my -- I have a legal office at 125 Cambridge Park Drive. I'm a lawyer for the Advesa team. That's why I'm
Economic Empowerment populations. We are recognized leaders in both the Massachusetts Avenue marijuana industry and the national and international cannabis communities.
So the location -- the location is at the corner of Windsor Street and Cambridge Street. It's not East Cambridge, it's not Inman Square, it's in between those two
of Windsor Street and Cambridge Street. It's not East Cambridge, it's not Inman Square, it's in between those two areas. It's the Harrington-Wellington neighborhood. Right
look like when it's completed. There's a vestibule area, people enter from this door on Cambridge Street. They come into the waiting area. They will eventually -- if they meet
Here's another view of it again. This is entering from Cambridge Street, a view -- the vestibule area and the sales area back here. And in the very back is a loading
that stops actually right in front of the building here on Cambridge Street. There is another bus -- the 85, I believe -- runs from Spring Hill to Kendall Square.
Cambridge Street. There is another bus -- the 85, I believe -- runs from Spring Hill to Kendall Square. And what that does is it comes down Western
-- runs from Spring Hill to Kendall Square. And what that does is it comes down Western Avenue, and then snakes over Webster Avenue, and there's a T
And what that does is it comes down Western Avenue, and then snakes over Webster Avenue, and there's a T stop right there where the bus stops. And then it drives
stop right there where the bus stops. And then it drives down here, and it goes down Windsor Street. And the same thing as with the CT2 bus, which
comes from Sullivan Square. It goes from Sullivan Square to Ruggles Square. It goes, takes the same route down Webster Ave, down Cambridge Street, down Windsor Street, and on the
Ruggles Square. It goes, takes the same route down Webster Ave, down Cambridge Street, down Windsor Street, and on the way back they go actually up Columbia Street, and they stop
Ave, down Cambridge Street, down Windsor Street, and on the way back they go actually up Columbia Street, and they stop at the end of Columbia Street.
way back they go actually up Columbia Street, and they stop at the end of Columbia Street. By the time our store is open, we believe and
And we also have a Bluebikes station right here at the corner of Webster Street, Columbia Street, and Cambridge Street. And there is a parking lot -- the Windsor lot.
the corner of Webster Street, Columbia Street, and Cambridge Street. And there is a parking lot -- the Windsor lot. Whoops, go back this way. There is a Windsor lot right
ensure that a school crossing guard is present at the intersection of Cambridge and Windsor Streets during school opening and closing hours. There used to be a school
opening and closing hours. There used to be a school crossing guard at Windsor and Cambridge Street, but this year the school crossing guard has moved down to Willow
crossing guard at Windsor and Cambridge Street, but this year the school crossing guard has moved down to Willow Street.
Borkowski? Okay. Michael Grill? MICHAEL GRILL: Hi, Michael Grill, G-r-i-l-l. I'm the Chairman of the 432 Columbia Street Condominium Trust,
MICHAEL GRILL: Hi, Michael Grill, G-r-i-l-l. I'm the Chairman of the 432 Columbia Street Condominium Trust, which owns 1035 Cambridge Street. Gerry was nice enough to
the Chairman of the 432 Columbia Street Condominium Trust, which owns 1035 Cambridge Street. Gerry was nice enough to put the aerial up. Our property is on the quadrant of --
MICHAEL GRILL: I will. I was here in 2015, when the 305 Webster Avenue project was approved. And during that project, or during that process, I gave you a letter,
members of the Board. My name is Caroline DeSola. That's D-e -- s like Sam -- o-l-a. I'm a resident in 336 Windsor Street, the street in front of the proposed location. I'm a
from school. It's an incredibly busy intersection at the corner of Windsor and Cambridge Street. The applicant noted there is a bus stop there.
please? JOSEPH FARINA: 333 Windsor Street. Let me start by saying that 70 percent of the voters in the neighborhood
community and our neighborhood. Think about the negative impact that this will have. I live on Windsor Street. I do not want people walking by my house smoking this drug. And
DAVID MONTAGUE: So I'm David Montague, M-o-n-t-a- g-u-e. I own a business at 1035 Cambridge Street. I own about 4,000 square feet there. I have between my company
there. We -- in order to get here tonight, I had to go out a door right on Windsor Street, pretty much one of the closest doors to that location.
employees -- the women in my company cannot leave the building through Windsor Street anymore, because these kids are out there smoking pot every night. That problem is
my company. They do not feel safe leaving through that -- through Windsor Street anymore. And that really is not a good thing.
SETH TAYLOR: Greetings, all. My name is Seth Taylor. I live at 48 Norfolk Street, on the corner of Bishop Allen and Norfolk Street, which is literally one
Taylor. I live at 48 Norfolk Street, on the corner of Bishop Allen and Norfolk Street, which is literally one block. I can see the dispensary from my window.
CATHERINE PRESTON CONNOLLY: Yeah, we're talking about the one on Cambridge Street at Windsor. SETH TAYLOR: Yeah.
SETH TAYLOR: So there are three of them that are proposed in and around Central Square, right? CATHERINE PRESTON CONNOLLY: Okay. But this is
MARK ROGERS: Good evening. My name is Mark Rogers. I own 1010 Cambridge Street, which is just to the left of Redphare, Muqueca Restaurant, you might be familiar
When I was a little boy, the only time there was traffic on Cambridge Street was the Fourth of July, people going to Memorial and Storrow Drive. Now it's every night.
traffic on Cambridge Street was the Fourth of July, people going to Memorial and Storrow Drive. Now it's every night. I respect the fact that this is a minority-owned, woman
Yes? The last one. ABIGAIL ALLEN: Abigail Allen, 962 Cambridge Street. We're the building directly right next to them, and
ALEX JUNDANIAN: Oh, yes, my name is Alex Jundanian, J-u-n-d-a-n-i-a-n, 15 Trowbridge Street. So I just wanted to take the time to say I actually myself work
Hampshire. My daughter is 20, but she was in the inaugural seventh grade at Cambridge Street Upper School, one of our city's great middle schools, grade 6, 7 and 8.
to see was the parade of families, children starting at age Cambridge Street Upper School. So we've got age 3 up to age about 13, 14, in
My GPS confirms to me that it's a two-minute walk to King Open and Cambridge Street Upper School, so ages 3 to And it's like -- to me it's kind of like saying,
THE REPORTER: Can you spell your first name? FREHIWOT TESFAYE: I live on 424 Windsor Street. THE REPORTER: Could you spell your first name,
you for giving me this opportunity. I am opposing this cannabis location because I live on Windsor Street. I work And they have decided to walk to the library,
what is making me nervous. When we purchased that property on Windsor Street, we walked through it. We prayed (sic) on that street every
MONICA EKE: Good evening. My name is Monica Eke. My last name is spelled E-k-e. I live at 13 Lincoln Street. I want to say I'm here today to oppose, not because I'm
DOLORES COLEMAN: Okay, thank you. Hi. My name is Dolores Coleman, C-o-l-e-m-a-n, and I live at 7 Lincoln Street. It's right next -- right close to Windsor Street.
is Dolores Coleman, C-o-l-e-m-a-n, and I live at 7 Lincoln Street. It's right next -- right close to Windsor Street. It's close to the school and all the other facilities that
OLLIE MOULTON: Hi, I'm Ollie Moulton, M-o-u-l-t- o-n, 7 Palermo Street. My main concern is parking and congestion. Our neighborhood is already so short on
generally. I have lost count of the number of times I've crossed Windsor Street at that location, and almost been hit by cars going so fast down Windsor Street. And so I don't
crossed Windsor Street at that location, and almost been hit by cars going so fast down Windsor Street. And so I don't know.
SASKIA JAMES: Hello, my name is Saskia James. I live at 251 Garden Street. I've been a resident here for well over a decade. I have a 16-year-old that attends
TERRY DRUCKER: Hi. My name is Terry Drucker. I live at 88 Chilton Street. THE REPORTER: Spell your name, please.
and more there's hundreds of condominiums now there. And along, then you go down Windsor Street -- again, it's all residential.
DAVID DESOLA: Good evening Madam Chair. My name is David DeSola, spelled, D-e-s-o-l-a, 336 Windsor Street. I want to echo some of the concerns of my neighbors. I'm a
Sheldon and I are hopeful and excited for Advesa to be part of the 966 Cambridge Street neighborhood, and we know that they will be good neighbors. Thank you.
SHANEL LINDSAY: My name is Shanel Lindsay, S-h-a- n-e-l, L-i-n-d-s-a-y, and I live at 754 South Street in Boston -- Roslindale. I think it's also important to note
here's the problem. The first problem is in the 7:00 p.m. in the evening line on Cambridge Street, it says the regulation is a two-hour meter.
bunch of restaurants there,” because I live farther down Cambridge Street where there are a lot of restaurants. But there aren't a lot of restaurants in that stretch between
So what it seems is that you've got a big parking problem after those spaces on Cambridge Street suddenly are available for residents to park after they come home from
Another thing that's very curious is if you look at the Windsor Street municipal lot, on Saturday night it's almost full. On a Wednesday night, it wasn't. Well, these
here are people who are worried about their children walking down Cambridge Street in front of this facility. And they describe, some of them, how they're going
there or takes the bus there or we drive her there, we will pass by liquor stores on Cambridge Street. I brought this up in past dispensary permits, but looking through the
bikes is enough for all your employees. I encourage you to think about the loading bay on Windsor Street and encourage you to consider restricting your hours of deliveries.
It took me five minutes to get across the intersection this afternoon coming here. I live on Willow Street. I really wish the outreach had gone a little
parking suggestion. We had testimony from the person who runs the 10:35 Cambridge Street. And he said, "What are we going to do at 6:00 when we're all gone, and people are
be inconsistent with what we have required of other applicants, including those, like in Central Square that are provided.
clear, and the bus stop remains feasible, just as we talked to them about extensively in Central Square. So -- JESSICA PELLETIER: Can I just quickly draw to an
is to have no 50-foot long, white, painted concrete block wall on Windsor Street. But if you're going to -- it could be a light or medium gray contrasting with black, but I
materials and the submissions from the City Solicitor and the Central Square Advisory Committee if there are any outstanding issues that you'd like us to address between now
Rafferty and I'm an attorney with offices located at 907 Massachusetts Avenue in Cambridge. And I represent the applicant, which is Philips of North America.
broader 137:10 Broadway 1:6 brokers 49:9
monopoly 93:14 Montague 43:9 month 24:9
