Women’s Commission Other Ordinary Maintenance account to pay for costs associated with expanded efforts on the Mapping Feminist Cambridge: Inman Square and the Mapping Feminist Cambridge: Central Square projects.
expanded efforts on the Mapping Feminist Cambridge: Inman Square and the Mapping Feminist Cambridge: Central Square projects. CMA 2020 #284
III. APPLICATIONS AND PETITIONS for a projecting sign at the premises numbered 125 River Street. approval has been received from Inspectional Services, Department of Public Works, Community Development Department and
Toomey, Councillor Zondervan requesting permission for 3 projecting signs at the premises numbered 33 Dunster Street. approval has been received from Inspectional Services, Department of Public Works, Community Development
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Ordinary Maintenance account to pay for costs associated with expanded efforts on the Mapping Feminist Cambridge: Inman Square and the Mapping Feminist Cambridge: Central Square projects.
rich feminist history in Cambridge from the 1970s-1990s. The popular projects will expand to include self-guided historical walking tours of Central Square in order to help facilitate foot traffic for small businesses that remain open.
History Project, will also be enhanced in order to include oral history audio and video clips as part of the walking tours of both Inman and Central Squares. There will also be an adapted guide aimed at middle and high school age youth and those involved virtually with city-run after
undertaken and enjoyed while social distancing. Downloadable guides of Mapping Feminist Cambridge: Inman Square and Mapping Feminist Cambridge: Central Square will both be expanded as well.
neighborhood/community anchor, the activation of properties such as 105 Windsor Street would present a clear occasion to create economic opportunities for Black and brown community members in the Port neighborhood and
That the City Manager be and hereby is requested to provide a report on the condition of the building at 105 Windsor Street and cost estimates of any repairs needed; and be it further
That the City Manager be and hereby is requested to issue recommendations to the City Council on how to develop 105 Windsor Street and any other underused properties based on an inclusive public process centered in the Port
grant a permit to The Nudo Society for a projecting sign at the premises numbered 125 River Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Provided that, before erecting the above named projecting sign the petitioner shall file with the City Clerk a bond in the sum of
grant a permit to Wachusett Brewing Company, Inc, for 3 projecting signs at the premises numbered 33 Dunster Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Provided that, before erecting the above named projecting sign the petitioner shall file with the City
Public Comments for City Council Meeting By Nicola Williams, 8 Brewer Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 POR 2020 #287
As the Facilitator of the Cambridge Somerville Black Business Network, board member of Sustainable Business Network of MA, Advisory member of Cambridge Local First, and member of Harvard Square and Central Square Business Associations and Cambridge Local First as well
Sustainable Business Network of MA, Advisory member of Cambridge Local First, and member of Harvard Square and Central Square Business Associations and Cambridge Local First as well as advocate on a nationally level for supporting small businesses during the COVID crisis, I fully
These arguments have also been used for large development projects in requesting special permits to waive the parking It came to my attention that 78 Porter Road, which to my best knowledge is a 100% affordable development, is currently undergoing renovation and is empty. I am writing to urge you to conduct a comprehensive, around the clock parking
undergoing renovation and is empty. I am writing to urge you to conduct a comprehensive, around the clock parking study during different days of a week for Porter Road/Regent Street loop while 78 Porter Road is empty and repeat the study once the renovation is completed and the building is fully occupied to measure the true impact of 100% affordable
improve the quality of life in the surrounding neighborhood Marty Mauzy 52 Garden Street Cambridge Sent from my iPhone
space useable by the public. It will also require developers to create open space in the Quadrangle. For the sake of the residents of Fresh Pond Towers, Jefferson Park Apartments, and the new residents of Just-a-Start’s complex (coming soon), along with the trees, plants and blue herons at the pond, please prioritize this project.
Russell/Samp/Comeau fields, as a passive, accessible natural reservation and be acquired or gifted from IQHQ, the new owner. It would serve over 4,000 low and moderate income residents of North Cambridge in the Rindge Towers, Jefferson Park and other affordable housing projects along Rindge Ave. who are disproportionately foreign born, minority and low income . In addition it could
would serve over 4,000 low and moderate income residents of North Cambridge in the Rindge Towers, Jefferson Park and other affordable housing projects along Rindge Ave. who are disproportionately foreign born, minority and low income . In addition it could also provide open space for the heavily underserved population of over 2,000 residents living in over 1,200 apartments newly built
also provide open space for the heavily underserved population of over 2,000 residents living in over 1,200 apartments newly built across the Parkway on Cambridge Park Drive. This can be accomplished, as the new owner /developer will be seeking approval for the development of a highly encumbered site
space useable by the public. It will also require developers to create open space in the Quadrangle. For the sake of the residents of Fresh Pond Towers, Jefferson Park Apartments, and the new residents of Just-a-Start’s complex (coming soon), along with the trees, plants and blue herons at the pond, please prioritize this project.
Greg Berndt Upland Road Packet Pg. 193
Cc: cambridgecitycouncil@cambridge.gov Subject: Windsor street and other properties - city council meeting 12/14/20 Port residents have advocated for more than four years for the reuse of 105 Windsor Street. This has
Subject: Windsor street and other properties - city council meeting 12/14/20 Port residents have advocated for more than four years for the reuse of 105 Windsor Street. This has been just one of the parcels that have been brought to the attention of the Council over the past several
been just one of the parcels that have been brought to the attention of the Council over the past several years. Of course, the Cherry St lot is another of the parcels. More recently (two years) we have advocated for a reuse of the multi-family residential building on Main Street across from the boutique
years. Of course, the Cherry St lot is another of the parcels. More recently (two years) we have advocated for a reuse of the multi-family residential building on Main Street across from the boutique hotel (once held and land banked by MIT). Of course, the loss of twelve (12) three bedroom apartments
From: Tom Evans, Executive Director RE: Historic Restoration of the Exterior of 105 Windsor Street (former Boardman School) Introduction:
Introduction: Over the course of the past two years the City of Cambridge (City) and the CRA staff have had a series of conversations regarding the future use of the City-owned property at 105 Windsor Street (the
Over the course of the past two years the City of Cambridge (City) and the CRA staff have had a series of conversations regarding the future use of the City-owned property at 105 Windsor Street (the Property). In the fall of 2016 the CRA began technical analysis of the property and also started to
their energy into healthy alternatives; and WHEREAS: His work at the Farr Academy lives on today in Central Square, where for over 30 years, his philosophy towards teaching has helped young men and women achieve
Councillor Simmons opened the hearing to Public Comment. Heather Hoffman, 213 Hurley Street, stated that she is glad to see this issue getting some attention. She said that she wondered whether an additional item could be considered: she said that she knows numerous
change in the rules could help some people to not be homeless. James Williamson, 1000 Jackson Place, stated that he did not have any comment prior to viewing the presentation by CDD.
to then decide to install ShotSpotter in a neighborhood. Saul Tannenbaum, 16 Cottage Street, expressed concern about Shotspotter. He stated that the system is a failure based on the original promises.
this link. Please click this link for the full schedule. Cambridge City Hall | 795 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139 ssiddiqui@cambridgema.gov│617-349-4321│tty: 617-492-0235│cambridgema.gov
Sumbul Siddiqui Cambridge City Hall | 795 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139 ssiddiqui@cambridgema.gov│617-349-4321│tty: 617-492-0235│cambridgema.gov
