PAGE 6 May 11, 2020 11. A communication was received from Frank Gerratana, 632 Massachusetts Avenue, regarding profane
May 11, 2020 11. A communication was received from Frank Gerratana, 632 Massachusetts Avenue, regarding profane Police tweet.
PAGE 8 May 11, 2020 21. A communication was received from Paul Toner, 24 Newman Street, regarding Policy Order #4.
May 11, 2020 21. A communication was received from Paul Toner, 24 Newman Street, regarding Policy Order #4. COM 280 #2020
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
(Calendar Item #5) from 10/7/2019 Central Square Library branch. Vice Mayor Mallon, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (Calendar Item #8)
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Report on the potential for implementing sufficient traffic-calming solutions on Upton Street. Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (O-7) from 1/27/2020
Councillor Simmons, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Carlone (O-1) from Report on working with the residents in the vicinity of Eustis Street to implement traffic calming measures on this street.
Requirements (a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, or (b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street
(a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, or (b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound.
(b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities are proposed to be Permanent Separated Bicycle
detailing why the extension was necessary by no later than May 1, 2025. D. By no later than May 1, 2022, the City Manager shall complete the installation of continuous Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between
D. By no later than May 1, 2022, the City Manager shall complete the installation of continuous Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting:
Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street;
Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street.
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along Massachusetts Avenue other than (a),
(d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along Massachusetts Avenue other than (a), (b), (c) and (d) are proposed to be Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes, the requirements of
Facilities has commenced prior to the deadline established by this Subsection D, provided, however, that if Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes are to be installed along Massachusetts Avenue from Sydney Street to Inman Street, the requirements of this Subsection D shall be
however, that if Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes are to be installed along Massachusetts Avenue from Sydney Street to Inman Street, the requirements of this Subsection D shall be satisfied so long as the design of such Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes has commenced
block analysis determining the impacts of installing Quick-Build Separated Bicycle Lanes on: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street.
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If, after a review of the analysis, the City Manager determines that Quick-Build Separated
Lane of Adequate Directionality along (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Packet Pg. 44 (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street,
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street, within one year of the City Manager’s submission to the City Council of an analysis of the
Directionality on such blocks within three years of the submission of the impacts analysis. F. Any Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along segment (a) of Subsection E, Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street, must also be separated from Public
F. Any Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along segment (a) of Subsection E, Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street, must also be separated from Public Transportation for the full stretch of that segment.
Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along: (a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, (b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street,
(a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, (b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street, (c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and
(b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street, (c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and (d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street
(c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and (d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound,
(d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound, provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord
from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound, provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord Avenue to the segment of Concord Avenue contiguous to Follen Street shall be improved to
provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord Avenue to the segment of Concord Avenue contiguous to Follen Street shall be improved to meet the needs of users of all ages and abilities.
City Council; City Manager; Clerk Please revisit decision regarding Memorial Drive I continue to be concerned that the City has decided, based on the "advice" of a "panel of experts" (despite no such
I continue to be concerned that the City has decided, based on the "advice" of a "panel of experts" (despite no such advice or expertise being put forth) that the City continues to keep Memorial Drive's Riverbend Park closed citing concerns about virus spreading.
suspend on any given Sunday the prohibitions as set forth in sections one and two of the use of motor vehicles on Memorial Drive in the city of Cambridge. Thus, the council order asking for it to be opened should reign supreme here, not the word of the Manager. If the City
City Council; Clerk Memorial Drive Memorial Drive is regularly closed to create Riverbend Park. While traffic volumes have decreased and the need to
Memorial Drive Memorial Drive is regularly closed to create Riverbend Park. While traffic volumes have decreased and the need to safely spend time outside while maintaining distance from others has increased, the City of Cambridge and Mass DCR
Memorial Drive is regularly closed to create Riverbend Park. While traffic volumes have decreased and the need to safely spend time outside while maintaining distance from others has increased, the City of Cambridge and Mass DCR have refused to take advantage of this opportunity to close off the roadway and allow people, who are already cramped
have refused to take advantage of this opportunity to close off the roadway and allow people, who are already cramped in the normal park area along Memorial Drive, to get the fresh air and space they need. The DCR has seen great results closing roadways elsewhere in the Greater Boston Region, why not here in Cambridge?
streets, now that the city council has twice passed orders asking the city manager to pursue closing streets—whether that be Memorial Drive or streets throughout neighborhoods. The justifications provided by the city manager in the past (and keep in mind that we've been kept in our houses and
Dear City Manager and to whoever else this will apply to: I am a long-time Cambridge resident of Central Square living in a condo building with no central air conditioning and no outdoor space to speak of, similar to many of the living situations in this city. I and everyone that I know of in my
distancing really is at the moment. I know the City Manager was tasked by the City Council to look at closing Memorial Drive and other streets for these purposes, but up till now there has been absolutely no action, and in fact even the short section of Memorial Drive
I know the City Manager was tasked by the City Council to look at closing Memorial Drive and other streets for these purposes, but up till now there has been absolutely no action, and in fact even the short section of Memorial Drive usually open to pedestrians on Sundays has been kept close for "safety." I find this incredibly short-sighted and
moving with haste to shut roads to traffic. An obvious starting point would be to immediately work with DCR to close Memorial Drive. It is obviously not necessary for automobile traffic in this current environment and it is plenty wide to easily enable social distancing. Currently, people are walking on the river path, which is increasingly crowded and too
Could the city print and distribute signs for storefronts saying that masks must be worn inside? Also, I would like to understand why I am seeing police cars parked near parks or in Central Square, but I do not see officers walking around and talking to people about masks.
Packet Pg. 80 Melissa Ludtke, 30 Buena Vista Park, May 11, 2020 Tonight I am speaking about Covid-19 in light of the City Manager
WHEREAS: Well into his nineties, Justice Laher continued in his service work, and was honored with the City of Cambridge Peace and Justice award, a key to the City, as well as the naming of “Justice Ismail Laher Square” on the corner of Massachusetts Avenue and
with the City of Cambridge Peace and Justice award, a key to the City, as well as the naming of “Justice Ismail Laher Square” on the corner of Massachusetts Avenue and Pleasant Street in Cambridge; and
naming of “Justice Ismail Laher Square” on the corner of Massachusetts Avenue and Pleasant Street in Cambridge; and WHEREAS:
ORDERED: Throughout the COVID-19 emergency, the City’s Recycling Center at 47 Hampshire Street has been closed leaving residents unable to recycle plastic items such as bags;
Siddiqui acting in accordance with Chapter 1 Section 2.3 of the Rules of School Committee, there will be a Roundtable meeting between the City Council and the School Committee on Tuesday, February 11, Broadway, Cambridge, for the purpose of beginning preliminary discussions on the FY21 School
a Roundtable meeting between the City Council and the School Committee on Tuesday, February 11, Broadway, Cambridge, for the purpose of beginning preliminary discussions on the FY21 School Department budget. It is anticipated this meeting will end no later than 7:30 p.m. This meeting is being
and red ribbon commissions. We put together a study and lots of times those go on the shelf. If you're doing one about Central Square, and you just spent the last 18 months putting that together and it goes on City of Cambridge
doing one about Central Square, and you just spent the last 18 months putting that together and it goes on City of Cambridge Page 15
