III. APPLICATIONS AND PETITIONS projecting sign at the premises numbered 5 Brattle Street approval has been received from Inspectional Services, Department of Public Works, Community Development Department and
Apr 13, 2020 11. A communication was received from Frank Gerratana, 632 Massachusetts Avenue, regarding War Memorial.
Apr 13, 2020 16. A communication was received from Itamar Turner-Trauting, 139 Oxford Street, regarding Housing the unhoused.
Apr 13, 2020 26. A communication was received from Emma Roberts, 89 Winter Street, regarding closing of Memorial Drive.
Apr 13, 2020 31. A communication was received from Lisa Gulesserian, regarding Memorial Drive for pedestrians. COM 174 #2020
Toomey, Councillor Zondervan of Memorial Drive. COM 176 #2020
Apr 13, 2020 41. A communication was received from Daniela Chong, 24 Fayette Street, regarding opening Memorial Drive.
Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern, Councillor Toomey (O-2) from Report on establishing a Central Square Improvement Fund and allocate no less than Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor McGovern (O-6) from 1/7/2019
(Calendar Item #5) from 10/7/2019 Central Square Library branch. Vice Mayor Mallon, Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (Calendar Item #8)
Councillor Zondervan (O-4) from 10/28/2019 between Roseland Street and Beech Street a quick-build Complete Street with bus priority.
Report on the potential for implementing sufficient traffic-calming solutions on Upton Street. Mayor Siddiqui, Councillor McGovern (O-7) from 1/27/2020
Councillor Simmons, Vice Mayor Mallon, Councillor Carlone (O-1) from Report on working with the residents in the vicinity of Eustis Street to implement traffic calming measures on this street.
Requirements (a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, or (b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street
(a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, or (b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound.
(b) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities are proposed to be Permanent Separated Bicycle
detailing why the extension was necessary by no later than May 1, 2025. D. By no later than May 1, 2022, the City Manager shall complete the installation of continuous Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between
D. By no later than May 1, 2022, the City Manager shall complete the installation of continuous Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting:
Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along Massachusetts Avenue between Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street;
Memorial Drive and Alewife Brook Parkway excepting: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue/Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street.
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along Massachusetts Avenue other than (a),
(d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If any of the Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along Massachusetts Avenue other than (a), (b), (c) and (d) are proposed to be Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes, the requirements of
Facilities has commenced prior to the deadline established by this Subsection D, provided, however, that if Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes are to be installed along Massachusetts Avenue from Sydney Street to Inman Street, the requirements of this Subsection D shall be
however, that if Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes are to be installed along Massachusetts Avenue from Sydney Street to Inman Street, the requirements of this Subsection D shall be satisfied so long as the design of such Permanent Separated Bicycle Lanes has commenced
block analysis determining the impacts of installing Quick-Build Separated Bicycle Lanes on: (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Street; (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street.
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; and (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street. If, after a review of the analysis, the City Manager determines that Quick-Build Separated
Lane of Adequate Directionality along (a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden
(a) Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street; (b) Massachusetts Avenue / Peabody Street northbound from Church Street to Garden Street;
Packet Pg. 42 (c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street,
(c) Massachusetts Avenue between Waterhouse Street and Roseland Street; or (d) Massachusetts Avenue between Beech Street and Dudley Street, within one year of the City Manager’s submission to the City Council of an analysis of the
Directionality on such blocks within three years of the submission of the impacts analysis. F. Any Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along segment (a) of Subsection E, Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street, must also be separated from Public
F. Any Separated Bicycle Facilities installed along segment (a) of Subsection E, Massachusetts Avenue between Plympton Street and Dunster Street, must also be separated from Public Transportation for the full stretch of that segment.
Separated Bicycle Facilities with Adequate Directionality along: (a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, (b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street,
(a) Broadway from Quincy Street to Hampshire Street, (b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street, (c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and
(b) Cambridge Street from Oak Street to Second Street, (c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and (d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street
(c) Hampshire Street from Amory Street to Broadway, and (d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound,
(d) Garden Street from Huron Avenue to Berkeley Street, eastbound, and Garden Street from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound, provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord
from Mason Street to Huron Avenue, westbound, provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord Avenue to the segment of Concord Avenue contiguous to Follen Street shall be improved to
provided, however, that the connection from the intersection of Garden Street and Concord Avenue to the segment of Concord Avenue contiguous to Follen Street shall be improved to meet the needs of users of all ages and abilities.
anyone who leaves the home; and Closing Memorial Drive to vehicular traffic would create a space for residents to go for a walk or get some exercise while maintaining recommended social distancing
That the City Manager be and hereby is requested to work with DCR to explore closing Memorial Drive for the duration of the Stay at Home order to give people in Cambridge a safe space to exercise and be outside without violating social distancing
closing Memorial Drive for the duration of the Stay at Home order to give people in Cambridge a safe space to exercise and be outside without violating social distancing practices; and be it further
grant a permit to Top Drawer for an external illuminating projecting blade sign at the premises numbered 5 Brattle Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Provided that, before erecting the above named projecting sign the petitioner shall file with the City Clerk a
CERTIFICATE OF NONAPPLICABILITY Property: 5 Brattle Street Applicant: AP Brattle Square LP
Property: 5 Brattle Street Applicant: AP Brattle Square LP Attention: Mark Conserva, Metro Sign
Councillors think it’s a good idea to go against the advice of our Governor, our Medical officials, and all prevailing wisdom and encourage groups of people to essentially congregate on Memorial Drive. It’s frightening to think that our Councillors possess this lack of basic comprehension of public health needs. This would be a DISASTER if this policy order were to
pass. With warm weather approaching (and lately already here), we are having a hard enough time convincing groups of people about the importance of staying home and self-isolation. Should Memorial Drive open up, we will have groups of people riding bikes, rollerblading, walking, running and congregating. It won’t just be the families and avid exercisers the
Clerk; City Council Memorial Drive closure I'm writing to express my support of opening Memorial Drive for pedestrian traffic during the Covid-19 crisis (calendar
Memorial Drive closure I'm writing to express my support of opening Memorial Drive for pedestrian traffic during the Covid-19 crisis (calendar item #3).
tasks, for example by leaving beaches open to transitory use, and by opening seasonal parks early, we should do the same by opening Memorial Drive to pedestrian traffic. We are in this for weeks and months to come, so we must seek interventions that are not just effective, but also
Clerk; City Council Memorial Drive closure I'm writing to express my support of opening Memorial Drive for pedestrian traffic during the Covid-19 crisis (calendar
Memorial Drive closure I'm writing to express my support of opening Memorial Drive for pedestrian traffic during the Covid-19 crisis (calendar item #3).
tasks, for example by leaving beaches open to transitory use, and by opening seasonal parks early, we should do the same by opening Memorial Drive to pedestrian traffic. We are in this for weeks and months to come, so we must seek interventions that are not just effective, but also
Clerk; City Manager Opening Memorial Drive to pedestrians during social isolation I am deeply disappointed with the lack of action taken by the city of Cambridge thus far in responding to the desperate
Opening Memorial Drive to pedestrians during social isolation I am deeply disappointed with the lack of action taken by the city of Cambridge thus far in responding to the desperate need of our residents for more spaces to get outside. Please close Memorial Drive to cars as soon as possible—and
I am deeply disappointed with the lack of action taken by the city of Cambridge thus far in responding to the desperate need of our residents for more spaces to get outside. Please close Memorial Drive to cars as soon as possible—and identify other streets in the community that can be turned rapidly into either pedestrian streets or slow-speed zones for
scary for my family and me, and it is depressing that the response by the council so far as been to avoid taking action, such as by closing Memorial Drive to cars. My understanding is that some members of the council are concerned that closing Memorial Drive would attract crowds
such as by closing Memorial Drive to cars. My understanding is that some members of the council are concerned that closing Memorial Drive would attract crowds and therefore cause a dangerous situation. However, I am confident that this fear is misplaced. The roughly four miles
and therefore cause a dangerous situation. However, I am confident that this fear is misplaced. The roughly four miles of Memorial Drive from Longfellow Bridge to Mount Auburn Hospital is equivalent to roughly 1,000,000 square feet of roadway, or 23 acres—roughly the size of Boston Public Garden. There is enough space within that area for more than
closed 18 miles of roadway to cars, for the purpose of pedestrian and bike use. Other places from Denver to Montgomery County, Maryland are taking similar steps. These initiatives are being undertaken in safety. Ultimately, if we're concerned about pedestrian congestion on Memorial Drive, the answer is not to take space away
from Denver to Montgomery County, Maryland are taking similar steps. These initiatives are being undertaken in safety. Ultimately, if we're concerned about pedestrian congestion on Memorial Drive, the answer is not to take space away from pedestrians—hoping they'll hold up in their apartments for the next month, We need to expand pedestrian space;
from pedestrians—hoping they'll hold up in their apartments for the next month, We need to expand pedestrian space; if Memorial Drive is too small (and even if it's not!), let's open up other streets for exclusive or safe pedestrian use, creating safe connections throughout our community.
and more specific. We repeat our strong support for closing Memorial Drive (Table #5) to create room for people to be outside (see our letter dated 3/29/20). We were disappointed to hear that the
Dear Council Members and City Manager: I understand that Policy Order 5 is being reconsidered to specifically close Memorial Drive to vehicular traffic. Whether weekend alone or weekdays, please factor in that Memorial Drive is the main road for many
I understand that Policy Order 5 is being reconsidered to specifically close Memorial Drive to vehicular traffic. Whether weekend alone or weekdays, please factor in that Memorial Drive is the main road for many residents who use the Boston Hospitals: Brigham and Women's, Beth Israel-Lahey, Children's Hospital, Joslin
residents who use the Boston Hospitals: Brigham and Women's, Beth Israel-Lahey, Children's Hospital, Joslin etc. To be sure, the long way around is just that, the long way around. Closing Memorial Drive essentially closes access to ambulances, and other emergency vehicles, not just private cars. To put your residents in
closes access to ambulances, and other emergency vehicles, not just private cars. To put your residents in jeopardy during a historic pandemic so that a few can exercise is absurd. Once closed, Memorial Drive will become an attractive nuisance, inviting neighboring residents to join in. Who is going to enforce 6-foot
Close more streets for pedestrians please Thank you for closing Memorial Drive To cars for the pandemic. We have lived in Cambridge for over 40 years and know how many others are active and need to be outside now more than ever for their mental and physical well-being. Please
Dear councilors, I am deeply disappointed with the lack of action taken by the city of Cambridge thus far in responding to the desperate need of our residents for more spaces to get outside. Please close Memorial Drive to cars as soon as possible—and
I am deeply disappointed with the lack of action taken by the city of Cambridge thus far in responding to the desperate need of our residents for more spaces to get outside. Please close Memorial Drive to cars as soon as possible—and identify other streets in the community that can be turned rapidly into either pedestrian streets or slow-speed zones for
scary for my family and me, and it is depressing that the response by the council so far as been to avoid taking action, such as by closing Memorial Drive to cars. My understanding is that some members of the council are concerned that closing Memorial Drive would attract crowds
such as by closing Memorial Drive to cars. My understanding is that some members of the council are concerned that closing Memorial Drive would attract crowds and therefore cause a dangerous situation. However, as a PhD student in city planning, and someone who holds
professional degrees in transportation and city planning (and has practiced in those fields), I am confident that this fear is misplaced. The roughly four miles of Memorial Drive from Longfellow Bridge to Mount Auburn Hospital is equivalent to roughly 1,000,000 square feet of roadway, or 23 acres—roughly the size of Boston Public Garden. There is enough
County, Maryland are taking similar steps. These initiatives are being undertaken in safety. Ultimately, if we're concerned about pedestrian congestion on Memorial Drive, the answer is not to take space away from pedestrians—hoping they'll hold up in their apartments for the next month, We need to expand pedestrian space;
from pedestrians—hoping they'll hold up in their apartments for the next month, We need to expand pedestrian space; if Memorial Drive is too small (and even if it's not!), let's open up other streets for exclusive or safe pedestrian use, creating safe connections throughout our community.
Perez, Lori FW: Memorial Drive Add this comm to the final actions
Cc: City Manager <CityManager@CambridgeMA.GOV>; Clerk <clerk@cambridgema.gov> Subject: Memorial Drive Dear councilors,
Dear councilors, I am deeply disappointed with the lack of action taken by the city of Cambridge thus far in responding to the desperate need of our residents for more spaces to get outside. Please close Memorial Drive to cars as soon as possible—and
I am deeply disappointed with the lack of action taken by the city of Cambridge thus far in responding to the desperate need of our residents for more spaces to get outside. Please close Memorial Drive to cars as soon as possible—and identify other streets in the community that can be turned rapidly into either pedestrian streets or slow-speed zones for
scary for my family and me, and it is depressing that the response by the council so far as been to avoid taking action, such as by closing Memorial Drive to cars. Moreover, other cities throughout the US are taking even more ambitious steps. Minneapolis, for example, has
such as by closing Memorial Drive to cars. Moreover, other cities throughout the US are taking even more ambitious steps. Minneapolis, for example, has closed 18 miles of roadway to cars, for the purpose of pedestrian and bike use. Other places
closed 18 miles of roadway to cars, for the purpose of pedestrian and bike use. Other places from Denver to Montgomery County, Maryland are taking similar steps. These initiatives are being undertaken in safety. Ultimately, if we're concerned about pedestrian congestion on Memorial Drive, the answer is not to take space away
from Denver to Montgomery County, Maryland are taking similar steps. These initiatives are being undertaken in safety. Ultimately, if we're concerned about pedestrian congestion on Memorial Drive, the answer is not to take space away from pedestrians—hoping they'll hold up in their apartments for the next month, We need to expand pedestrian space;
from pedestrians—hoping they'll hold up in their apartments for the next month, We need to expand pedestrian space; if Memorial Drive is too small (and even if it's not!), let's open up other streets for exclusive or safe pedestrian use, creating safe connections throughout our community.
Perez, Lori FW: Close Memorial Drive Add this comm to the final actions
Cc: Clerk <clerk@cambridgema.gov>; City Manager <CityManager@CambridgeMA.GOV> Subject: Close Memorial Drive Dear councilors,
Dear councilors, I am disappointed with the lack of action taken by the city of Cambridge thus far in responding to the desperate need of our residents to spend time outside safely. Please close Memorial Drive to cars as soon as possible—and identify other
I am disappointed with the lack of action taken by the city of Cambridge thus far in responding to the desperate need of our residents to spend time outside safely. Please close Memorial Drive to cars as soon as possible—and identify other streets in the community that can be turned rapidly into either pedestrian streets or slow-speed zones for use by
Perez, Lori FW: Close Memorial Drive to Cars Add this comm to the final actions
Cc: Clerk <clerk@cambridgema.gov>; City Manager <CityManager@CambridgeMA.GOV> Subject: Close Memorial Drive to Cars Dear Councilors,
however, when I do so, I often find myself running in the street just to avoid coming within 6’ of my fellow pedestrians. It would be immensely helpful to the safety and sanity of Cambridge residents if you were to close Memorial Drive to cars and open it to pedestrians to alleviate the current levels of pedestrian congestion on the small sidewalks around
Stephanie Silva Sidney Street Resident Stephanie Silva
Perez, Lori FW: Memorial Drive Closure Add this comm to the final actions
Cc: Clerk <clerk@cambridgema.gov>; City Manager <CityManager@CambridgeMA.GOV> Subject: Memorial Drive Closure My name’s Ben Walker, and I’m a Cambridge resident at 30 Norfolk St. concerned that the Council has rejected plans to
Subject: Memorial Drive Closure My name’s Ben Walker, and I’m a Cambridge resident at 30 Norfolk St. concerned that the Council has rejected plans to close Memorial Drive to vehicles. I’ve practiced social distancing for about a month now, but when I do leave the house,
My name’s Ben Walker, and I’m a Cambridge resident at 30 Norfolk St. concerned that the Council has rejected plans to close Memorial Drive to vehicles. I’ve practiced social distancing for about a month now, but when I do leave the house, Cambridge’s narrow sidewalks make walking in the street unavoidable. When I try to keep my neighbors safe by
distancing, I put myself at risk in the road. That’s why I support efforts to close Memorial Drive and potentially other streets to cars so that pedestrians have access to an amount of space appropriate to social distancing guidelines.
I appreciate the Council’s concerns about overcrowding – we all want to do what we can. But as it stands, Cambridge’s constrained public spaces block pedestrians from practicing social distancing. Closing Memorial Drive at a minimum would go a long way to easing this strain.
Perez, Lori FW: Opening Memorial Drive to pedestrians From: Silvia Danielak <silviada@mit.edu>
Cc: Clerk <clerk@cambridgema.gov>; City Manager <CityManager@CambridgeMA.GOV> Subject: Opening Memorial Drive to pedestrians Dear councilors,
Dear councilors, I am very disappointed with the lack of action taken by the City of Cambridge thus far in responding to residents' desperate need for more spaces to get outside. Please close Memorial Drive to cars as soon as
I am very disappointed with the lack of action taken by the City of Cambridge thus far in responding to residents' desperate need for more spaces to get outside. Please close Memorial Drive to cars as soon as possible—and identify other streets in the community that can be turned rapidly into either pedestrian streets
citizens and keep our community safe. Having more space to do so would make a tremendous difference. My understanding is that some members of the council are concerned that closing Memorial Drive would attract crowds and therefore cause a dangerous situation. However, as a PhD student in city planning at MIT,
attract crowds and therefore cause a dangerous situation. However, as a PhD student in city planning at MIT, I am confident that this fear is misplaced. The roughly four miles of Memorial Drive from Longfellow Bridge to Mount Auburn Hospital is equivalent to roughly 1,000,000 square feet of roadway, or 23 acres—roughly the
I am confident that this fear is misplaced. The roughly four miles of Memorial Drive from Longfellow Bridge to Mount Auburn Hospital is equivalent to roughly 1,000,000 square feet of roadway, or 23 acres—roughly the size of Boston Public Garden. There is enough space within that area for more than 2,500 people to stand with
Subject: Please open streets for pedestrian use I am a resident of the City of Cambridge (116 Willow Street). I live in a small apartment, so I have relied on walks outside to maintain my physical and mental health during this crisis. I never realized how narrow our
able to follow social distancing guidelines while going outside. I ask that the council support of the effort to close Memorial Drive. I'd also like to draw your attention to the possibility of making a lane of Harvard bridge a pedestrian-only lane
close Memorial Drive. I'd also like to draw your attention to the possibility of making a lane of Harvard bridge a pedestrian-only lane -- right now, there are almost no cars using the bridge, yet because of the tiny sidewalks, it is impossible to
noted that the benefits of outdoor access likely outweigh the risks of spreading covid-19 so long as people are able to get outside safely. Your initiative to close Memorial Drive is a wonderful example of an effort that will make the right choice the easy choice.
Perez, Lori FW: Memorial Drive for pedestrians! From: Lisa Gulesserian <lgulesse@gmail.com>
Cc: City Manager <CityManager@CambridgeMA.GOV>; Clerk <clerk@cambridgema.gov> Subject: Memorial Drive for pedestrians! Dear Cambridge City Council,
Subject: Memorial Drive for pedestrians! Dear Cambridge City Council, I’m writing to say that I’m surprised that the Council has not yet supported measures to close Memorial Drive to cars
Dear Cambridge City Council, I’m writing to say that I’m surprised that the Council has not yet supported measures to close Memorial Drive to cars and make it a pedestrian avenue for the duration of coronavirus closures. I’m a resident of Cambridge who lives in a tiny
I’m writing to say that I’m surprised that the Council has not yet supported measures to close Memorial Drive to cars and make it a pedestrian avenue for the duration of coronavirus closures. I’m a resident of Cambridge who lives in a tiny apartment with no outside access. So, after a long day of working from home, I tend to go on runs or walks near the
apartment with no outside access. So, after a long day of working from home, I tend to go on runs or walks near the river for exercise. Unfortunately, the rest of Cambridge has the same idea! I find myself trying to dodge people on my runs, and it’s becoming increasingly difficult to maintain a six-foot distance! Please make Memorial Drive a pedestrian
river for exercise. Unfortunately, the rest of Cambridge has the same idea! I find myself trying to dodge people on my runs, and it’s becoming increasingly difficult to maintain a six-foot distance! Please make Memorial Drive a pedestrian zone until businesses reopen! It’s necessary for the health of our city!
Perez, Lori FW: Please close Memorial Drive to cars ASAP From: Nathan Arnosti <nathan.arnosti@gmail.com>
Cc: Clerk <clerk@cambridgema.gov>; City Manager <CityManager@CambridgeMA.GOV> Subject: Please close Memorial Drive to cars ASAP Dear Councilors,
Dear Councilors, Please close Memorial Drive to cars as soon as possible. I live with my partner in a small one-bedroom at 241 River Street, and rely on the paths along the Charles River daily for exercise and fresh air. Especially during daylight hours, the
Please close Memorial Drive to cars as soon as possible. I live with my partner in a small one-bedroom at 241 River Street, and rely on the paths along the Charles River daily for exercise and fresh air. Especially during daylight hours, the paths can get busy with runners, bikers, and walkers. I try to social distance as much as possible, including by walking
and running off the path, but remain concerned that I'm putting myself and others at risk. I also worry when I see others running directly adjacent to Memorial Drive, just feet from speeding cars, in an effort to keep their distance from We shouldn't have to take these risks to get the fresh air we need during these stressful times. And we don't need to -
We shouldn't have to take these risks to get the fresh air we need during these stressful times. And we don't need to - closing Memorial Drive to cars, even just during daylight hours, would go a long way towards helping people get exercise I've heard that some officials are concerned that closing Memorial Drive will lead to block party-type situations. I'm no
closing Memorial Drive to cars, even just during daylight hours, would go a long way towards helping people get exercise I've heard that some officials are concerned that closing Memorial Drive will lead to block party-type situations. I'm no public health expert, but that argument doesn't make sense to me. I'll be using those paths for daily exercise regardless,
whether or not cars are there. But without cars, I'll be able to more easily keep my distance from others. In short, it seems to me that keeping Memorial Drive open exposes people to risk; closing it reduces risk. Thanks for your consideration of this issue, and for everything you're doing to keep our community safe.
only option, and I feel increasingly uncomfortable using them given the volume of other people trying to do the same thing. Please consider opening not only all of Memorial Drive, but also other streets across the city to maximize the amount of open space that residents can safely access. Please keep in mind that if you don’t expand city’s portfolio of
Subject: Street Closures to Cars I live in an apartment in Cambridge at 21 Jefferson St. I wanted to express my support for closing some streets like Memorial Drive to cars. I would like to be able to safely get out in a socially distant way during this crisis.
I live in an apartment in Cambridge at 21 Jefferson St. I wanted to express my support for closing some streets like Memorial Drive to cars. I would like to be able to safely get out in a socially distant way during this crisis. Many other cities have been closing streets to cars including Minneapolis, Denver, Oakland, Louisville, Portland, and
Perez, Lori FW: Memorial Drive plan Add this comm to the final actions
Cc: Clerk <clerk@cambridgema.gov>; City Manager <CityManager@CambridgeMA.GOV> Subject: Memorial Drive plan Dear councilors,
cars!) so as to maintain social distancing. I STRONGLY support the effort to close Memorial Drive so that pedestrians like me can walk comfortably and at a safe distance from each other. Whenever I go to Memorial Drive now, the grass
I STRONGLY support the effort to close Memorial Drive so that pedestrians like me can walk comfortably and at a safe distance from each other. Whenever I go to Memorial Drive now, the grass is crowded. If we have the entire space, we can all maintain a safe distance.
Perez, Lori FW: Request for more pedestrian space during pandemic. Memorial Drive. From: Malcolm Bliss <malcolmdbliss@gmail.com>
FW: Request for more pedestrian space during pandemic. Memorial Drive. From: Malcolm Bliss <malcolmdbliss@gmail.com> Sent: Friday, April 10, 2020 6:28 PM
Cc: Clerk <clerk@cambridgema.gov>; City Manager <CityManager@CambridgeMA.GOV> Subject: Request for more pedestrian space during pandemic. Memorial Drive. Dear Councilors,
Dear Councilors, In the interest of providing more space for people to get outside during the pandemic, please close Memorial Drive to cars —and identify other streets in the community that can be turned into pedestrian streets or slow-speed zones for
Dear councilors, In the interest of providing adequate open space for residents during the pandemic, please close Memorial Drive to cars as soon as possible, and quickly work towards identifying other streets that can be used as pedestrian zones around the
do so moving forward. Please open up Memorial Drive -- and other streets, if possible -- for exclusive or safe pedestrian use. I have observed a clear, desperate need for more safe outdoor space, and appreciate any efforts you may take in order to secure such
Perez, Lori FW: Close Memorial Drive Add this comm to the final actions
Cc: Clerk <clerk@cambridgema.gov>; City Manager <CityManager@CambridgeMA.GOV> Subject: Close Memorial Drive Dear Councilors,
Dear Councilors, I would like to request you to please close Memorial Drive to cars as soon as possible—and identify other streets in the community that can be turned rapidly into either pedestrian streets or slow-speed zones for use
upsetting and scary for my family and me, and it is depressing that the response by the council so far as been to avoid taking action, such as by closing Memorial Drive to cars. My understanding is that some members of the council are concerned that closing Memorial Drive would
to avoid taking action, such as by closing Memorial Drive to cars. My understanding is that some members of the council are concerned that closing Memorial Drive would attract crowds and therefore cause a dangerous situation. However, there is enough space within that area for
in safety. Ultimately, if we're concerned about pedestrian congestion on Memorial Drive, the answer is not to take space away from pedestrians—hoping they'll hold up in their apartments for the next month. We need to
Packet Pg. 121 expand pedestrian space; if Memorial Drive is too small (and even if it's not!), let's open up other streets for exclusive or safe pedestrian use, creating safe connections throughout our community.
Perez, Lori FW: Opening Memorial Drive to pedestrians From: Daniela Chong Lugon <dchong@mit.edu>
Cc: Clerk <clerk@cambridgema.gov>; City Manager <CityManager@CambridgeMA.GOV> Subject: Opening Memorial Drive to pedestrians Dear councilors,
Dear councilors, I am disappointed by the lack of action taken by the city of Cambridge in providing more spaces for residents to go outside and keep safe and distant from each other. I am urging you to please support the effort to close Memorial Drive (and
I am disappointed by the lack of action taken by the city of Cambridge in providing more spaces for residents to go outside and keep safe and distant from each other. I am urging you to please support the effort to close Memorial Drive (and hopefully other streets too) to cars so that pedestrians and runners like myself can have access to safe open public
Now, more than ever, we need large open public spaces so pedestrians can go outside and keep their mental and physical health. Please support opening Memorial Drive to pedestrians. Thank you in advance for your support,
Dear Councilors, I am a resident at 48 JFK Street and a business owner at 17 Story Street. I have lived in Cambridge since 1974. I would like to express my strong support for Policy Order (POR)
I am a resident at 48 JFK Street and a business owner at 17 Story Street. I have lived in Cambridge since 1974. I would like to express my strong support for Policy Order (POR) how to secure support, including the use of dormitories, from our three major non-profit
essential services at the risk of their own health; and One employee at Whole Foods’ River Street location has tested positive for Coronavirus, and a Market Basket employee in Salem has died after contracting
One employee at Whole Foods’ River Street location has tested positive for Coronavirus, and a Market Basket employee in Salem has died after contracting Coronavirus, illustrating just how dire this situation has become for our grocery store
WHEREAS: The city is preparing to open an emergency shelter at the War Memorial Recreation Center and Fieldhouse complex on Cambridge Street; and
The city is preparing to open an emergency shelter at the War Memorial Recreation Center and Fieldhouse complex on Cambridge Street; and The World Health Organization (WHO) advises that preliminary studies have shown
Within the Kendall Square Urban Renewal Project (KSURP), the CRA, in partnership with Boston Properties and TSNE Missionworks, opened a workforce development and educational shared workspace, called The Link. New commercial development in KSURP included the completion of Akamai’s world headquarters at 145 Broadway
TSNE Missionworks, opened a workforce development and educational shared workspace, called The Link. New commercial development in KSURP included the completion of Akamai’s world headquarters at 145 Broadway and the final design of 325 Main Street that provides additional office space for Google’s Cambridge campus.
commercial development in KSURP included the completion of Akamai’s world headquarters at 145 Broadway and the final design of 325 Main Street that provides additional office space for Google’s Cambridge campus. Plaza utilizing a rebuilt MBTA headhouse as a stepping stone up to the new public park.
and enhancing the building’s use as a center for community service nonprofits in Central Square. The CRA reinforced its relationship with the
focused on workforce development and education, opened at 255 Main Street. Boston Properties (BXP) completed the construction
Properties (BXP) completed the construction of a new commercial building at 145 Broadway to serve as the world headquarters for Akamai.
the design of a new commercial building at 325 Main Street that will provide additional office space for Google’s Cambridge campus. This
Main Street that will provide additional office space for Google’s Cambridge campus. This project will deliver a fully redesigned roof garden
The CRA oversaw the completion of Boston Properties' 145 Broadway project, the first commercial building approved as part of the
political officials. The 145 Broadway project also provided public realm street and landscaping improvements. The
path on the north side of 145 Broadway, connecting Galileo Way and the West Service Drive. An expanded streetscape along Galileo
Ground floor retail space will help activate the Galileo Way and Broadway corner streetscape. Sweetgreens, a national salad chain, and
remaining public realm improvements for Proto. Ames Street's reconstruction is now complete, including a two-way cycle track on the east side
of Ames, a new floating bus stop, a resignaled intersection at Ames and Broadway, as well as final landscaping.
CAMBRIDGE REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITYThis Page LEFT/ Rendering of 325 Main Street's ground floor retail and RIGHT/ Rendering of 325 Main Street building
LEFT/ Rendering of 325 Main Street's ground floor retail and RIGHT/ Rendering of 325 Main Street building Opposite Page
Opposite Page LEFT/ 145 Broadway Building CENTER/ 145 Broadway "Akamile" staircase
LEFT/ 145 Broadway Building CENTER/ 145 Broadway "Akamile" staircase RIGHT/ Two-way cycle track on Ames Street
CENTER/ 145 Broadway "Akamile" staircase RIGHT/ Two-way cycle track on Ames Street The IDCP's Phase II commercial building, located
The IDCP's Phase II commercial building, located at 325 Main Street, was approved by the CRA and the Planning Board on March 20, 2019.
amenities. Improvements include enhanced connectivity from Main Street and Kendall Plaza to the Roof Garden by a new public elevator,
connectivity from Main Street and Kendall Plaza to the Roof Garden by a new public elevator, and a staircase from Main Street, via a public
to the Roof Garden by a new public elevator, and a staircase from Main Street, via a public second level terrace, to the Roof Garden. The
a new double-height public indoor lobby to connect the 325 and 355 Main Street buildings, and provides indoor seating and pedestrian
and provides indoor seating and pedestrian connection from Main Street to Pioneer Way and the Roof Garden.
the Roof Garden. Construction of 325 Main Street began in the fall of 2019 with the demolition and abatement of
of 2019 with the demolition and abatement of Three Cambridge Center. Vertical construction is expected to be underway by the first quarter of
and Two Track Transit. RIGHT / Streetscape in front of 145 Broadway on Galileo Opposite Page
documents for their portion of the streetscape project, which includes Binney Street from the Sixth Street intersection west via Galileo Way
Sixth Street intersection west via Galileo Way to Main Street and part of Broadway. The CRA and city departments have worked closely with
including proximity to public transportation and a range of other services in Central Square. It is within walking distance for many families
LEFT/ Kathryn Madden at a Foundry community meeting RIGHT/ A rendering of the Foundry Building from Rogers Street Workforce Development - The Link
Workforce Development - The Link square foot facility at 255 Main Street, created through a partnership of the CRA, Boston
Properties’ permit to build a new office building for Akamai at 145 Broadway was conditional on providing this space. Kendall Square is
a new addition with a modern metal finish and a contemporary entryway on Rogers Street. Adjacent to the building is an exterior courtyard
ABC plans to renovate their children’s program space in their building at 20 Sacramento Street. This space is used by hundreds of children
• Magazine Beach Park Outlook (2017) – Magazine Beach Partners • 950 Cambridge Street Façade Improvements
Magazine Beach Partners • 950 Cambridge Street Façade Improvements (2018) - Vinfen
Opportunity Program out of their offices at 1035 Cambridge Street. The program provides JAS residents, students, and other referrals one-on-
permitting delays, the revenue expected in 2019 from the 325 Main Street commercial building was delayed until Q1 2020. The CRA received the
Boston Properties for access rights to CRA- owned land for the demolition work at 325 Main Street. The Food Truck program continues to
operator of The Link Kendall, located on the eighth floor of 255 Main Street. As a government organization with 60 years
Kendall Square Urban Renewal Plan • Complete review of 325 Main Street public realm improvements • Approve design of the 135 Broadway residential project
• Complete review of 325 Main Street public realm improvements • Approve design of the 135 Broadway residential project • Complete conceptual open space designs in KSURP
